FILE: 06. Let's get Hooked!.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Let's just start today's session, okay?
So let's just start, right?
Let's not waste time, let us just start, okay?
So how do I start my app?
Quickly, let me know.
I want some energy in here.
Yup, let us just start with this.
Just give me a moment.
NPM start.
Yup, I have my app running,
let me just pull up things, right?
So today, we are going to study amazing things, right?
We built our Food Wille app yesterday, right?
We built our Food Wille app, and it was crazy, right?
I mean, we built a lot of stuff yesterday, right?
Oh, yeah, I am smiling.
Why not?
Don't worry.
Okay, so we built the Food Wille app, right?
And we saw a lot of cool things, right?
And I was going through the Discord community also.
A lot of people were saying that, okay, Akshay,
I did not understand a lot of things, right?
But I request you, right?
I tried to see what doubts you were asking.
So basically, most of the doubts were around, you know,
the most of the doubts were around
related to topics related to JavaScript, right?
So what I would suggest is that, please, please, please,
brush up your JavaScript skills
along with working on these apps, right?
So, okay, so brush up your JavaScript skills
and please be active on Discord, right?
We would be, and I would be spending a lot of time, right?
In Discord also, I was not getting some time, right?
Because I was busy fixing these technical issues.
I'm busy dealing with piracy and all.
I'm doing something about it.
So I just want to deal with everything, right?
So I just did not get time,
but I'll be very active in the community, don't worry, right?
So, and don't worry, I am not going anywhere
unless you learn React, right?
I'll be here, I will teach you whole React.
Don't worry, okay?
Cool, so let us start with today's session.
So yesterday, yesterday, right?
So let us just quickly revise a little bit
for just five minutes about what did we do yesterday, right?
So I'll ask you few questions, okay?
You have to answer, okay?
Discord link I'll share in a while, okay?
Let's not divert, right?
So what is these?
What are these empty brackets?
What is this?
What are these empty brackets?
What are these empty brackets?
React.fragment, absolutely.
And we also saw that, okay, we can write React.fragments.
Where does this React.fragment come from?
If I write here React.fragment,
where does it comes from?
Yes, it comes from our React library, right?
That we had.
Okay, so what is this create root?
Okay, we are not using this.
Let us just get rid of this create root.
I think it's just a news thing, right?
Just kept over here.
This is our react down, okay?
So we also saw that, okay,
we started building a food ordering app, right?
We started ordering, building a food ordering app,
just like Swiggy.
And I really wanted to use the actual live data, you know?
Sometimes when we build mock data, I wanted,
first of all, I thought that, okay,
I'll use Firebase and just create a small API
with some dummy data.
And we will do that, right?
So, but I thought that, okay,
I thought that, okay, let us use the live data, right?
It was a good decision, isn't it?
You would have learned something new
out of this live data.
Yes, because a lot of people don't want to use it.
So I use the public API of Swiggy, right?
And I just saw that, okay, the data structure looks like.
And you know, when I'm teaching you,
I want to teach you with exact how you work, right?
How you work in real life.
In real life, the data would be somewhat like this.
It won't be easy.
There won't be so many things in the data, see?
Like you would understand a lot of things over here,
that, okay, why would somebody has given
this short description list?
Why would some, the data would have
these aggregated discount info V2, right?
So this is some aggregated discount info V2, right?
There is some aggregated discount info, right?
So there are, there are a lot of new things
and nuances that you see in the live data.
So I always love to teach with live data, okay?
But if you want, I can teach you
with like random mock data also, right?
So I'll take that up, right?
Cool, so let's just start,
okay, no mock data, no mock data, live data only, okay?
Yeah, let's use this live data only, okay?
So we will see all that, right?
Right now we have just hard coded it.
Today, today, today, okay?
So today, let us just start it, right?
We also saw something about virtual DOM, right?
So virtual DOM, so what is, what is,
what is, what is the reconciliation, right?
Okay, people wrote reconciliation.
So everybody, right?
Everybody who does not know if you are not able to answer
what is virtual DOM, what is reconciliation, right?
What is reconciliation?
And what is react fiber, diff algorithm?
These things you should be able to answer.
How does diff algorithm works, right?
So are you able to answer that yes or no?
I don't want to see any no's.
If there are no's, then watch the previous lecture, okay?
And thank you so much, right?
For participating, this feels like I'm talking
not to camera, but to students I'm teaching, right?
So I am super excited right now.
Let us just begin today's session.
So I created a folder over here, SRC.
Do you know a folder which is named as SRC?
You would have seen, right?
In almost every project, we have this folder SRC, right?
In every project, and everybody just tells us
that this is a source folder, right?
And we don't know why we created it.
We don't know who told us to create it.
Nobody, it's just always there, right?
So I'll tell you, so it is not necessary
to create any folder in your app as well.
Everything can be done inside one project folder
every file can be here.
But we need to wrap our code into a proper folder structure.
That gives us better modular approach, right?
That is how your code becomes modular
and findable also, right?
Otherwise, when there are 1000 files in your app, right?
Sometimes your app goes very big, right?
It has like hundreds of files.
So it becomes very difficult to find things out.
And this is a common convention
which is used in the industry.
It's not something which is very much required, right?
But we always, generally, it's a practice
and all developers relate to it.
So I think that it's just now
how everybody in the developer community has picked up, right?
So the file organization.
So that's why we have this folder SRC.
I just created it before the class, right?
So now what we will do,
we will put all our files,
all the files related to our app inside SRC folder.
Does that make sense?
Does that make sense?
Okay.
So we will keep, you know, now there is no, you know,
there is no hard and fast rule for this, okay?
If you go to the React documentation, right?
It is not working somehow.
I'll fix this up because I moved the app.js inside, right?
So it broke the import.
Let's fix this, okay?
So basically I moved the app.js inside SRC.
So now what you will have to write over here?
What you will have to write quickly?
SRC slash app.js, you are absolutely right, right?
So basically if you write SRC slash app.js,
so it should work, right?
So now our app works smoothly.
Now let us just, okay?
So now what we will do?
I'll show you one more thing, right?
React folder structure.
I want you all to read this, right?
File structure.
So in the React's official documentation,
React says that is there a recommended way
to structure a React project?
So React says that React does not have any opinions
how you put files into folder.
React says however you want to keep your file,
keep it like that, right?
However, you want to keep your file,
you can keep it like that.
We don't want to enforce anything, right?
Zooming in, zooming in.
So we don't want to enforce anything, right?
React does not have any opinion.
But, but, but there are a lot of people
and a lot of architect, right?
When they build project,
so they like to categorize their files
in different folder patterns, right?
They use different patterns in different projects
when we build a big, large app, right?
So some people, right?
Some architects, some developers
like to group their, right?
Like to group their files by features, okay?
Suppose if you are building a food ordering app,
what all features can you have?
Can you just tell me about some features?
Yup, exactly.
It can have a cart, it can have a search,
it can have a menu,
it can have a user, right?
User profile, food details, so many things.
Order, order history, exactly.
So, you know, not check out, right?
Not check out.
Maybe check out can be inside cart, right?
So basically you can distribute,
distribute your files according to the routes also
or the features.
But am I in the current folder?
I want to import it from component slash title, okay?
I want to import it from components slash title, okay?
There are a lot of plugins,
something like auto import and all that stuff.
So it automatically figures out the file path.
But I don't want you to use this.
Don't use those.
Write it yourself, write it yourself.
Now when you have imported, will this work?
This will not work.
This will not work.
Why?
Because you have imported something, title from title.
But we need to export it from here as well.
We need to export it from this file as well.
We need to tell that I am exporting this title
so that anybody can include it, okay?
You cannot just directly go into this file and read title.
No, you need to export it.
How do you export it?
There are two ways of exporting.
There are two ways of exporting.
I'll tell you both the ways, okay?
There is something known as export default,
export default and title, okay?
If you do a export default title,
if you do a export default title,
it will export this title component by default.
That means if I try to read title from this component
like this, it will work, right?
It will work, okay?
So let us just go back, okay?
So if I refresh the page, this works, right?
My title component, my logo loads properly, okay?
Now, why to use this word default?
Do you have this question?
Why to use this word default?
You should know that, right?
Because there is one more way to export.
There is one more way to export.
So, okay, I'll tell you one more thing.
Your doubts will be cleared.
So instead of title.js, let's make a head.js,
header.js, okay?
Let's import our header only, okay?
So instead of my title.js,
let's rename this to header.js, okay?
Header.js, right?
And now, let me include my header like this, right?
Header from header.
And let us keep our header as well as title from there, right?
I have kept my header as well as title
inside the same file, okay?
I can do this as well, okay?
I can have my header as well as my title in the same file.
Now, I have an option.
Suppose I want to export both of them.
Can I export both of them using default?
Can I export both of them using default?
No, you cannot export it like this, right?
So, I can just export default one thing.
I can just export default one thing, right?
And most of the times,
suppose if I exported default header, okay?
So I will be able to import my header wherever I want to.
How?
Like this, right?
I can import my header like this
and my header can be found over here, right?
Here, right?
I can use my header here, right?
If I save my file, I'll refresh the page.
It works fine, right?
Listen to me very carefully.
You like keep on bugging over here, right?
Just hold on for a while, okay?
Suppose if you want to export multiple things
from the same file.
So one way or to export is to export directly.
So you can export constant title.
This is another way to export, right?
This is another way to export.
Now, if you export by default,
you import like this.
Suppose if you are exporting it by name, right?
See, this is exporting by default.
This is exporting by name, right?
This is exporting a constant variable title, right?
So when you do this,
so whenever you are importing,
you have to do something like this.
You are basically extracting it from our header file, right?
From our header file, okay?
Does this make sense?
You have to use this curly parenthesis, okay?
So and this is known as named import.
This is known as named import.
And this is known as default import, default import.
Does that make sense?
Named import, default import.
So a lot of times,
you will see that sometimes we write this curly parenthesis,
sometimes we don't write these curly parenthesis
and you will get a lot of error.
You will get a lot of error, right?
I'll repeat it once again, okay?
I'll repeat it once again, okay?
Now, now, now, now, okay?
Suppose if we created a new file,
which has two components, right?
Two components.
And I want to export both of these components.
I can just write export default header, one component only.
There are multiple hacky ways
to send out two components also.
But how?
If I wrap these two components into a single object,
can go, right?
I can wrap all these components into an object
and can export.
But, but, but,
you can only export one thing inside from a file, okay?
You can do some hacky ways
to export multiple things from here, right?
But then we generally do it like this, right?
So you always have an export default.
So basically, assume it like this.
So suppose if you have a header.js file,
what do you want it to export by default?
Title component or header component?
Title component or header component, right?
Export it by default.
It exports header, right?
And if suppose I want to also export title component,
I can do that using this.
I can do that using this.
But the way you can include it
becomes a little different.
The way you can include it, import it,
becomes a little different.
In default import,
you don't put these curly parenthesis, right?
And from, from your named import,
you have to use this curly parenthesis.
This is known as named import.
Does that make sense?
Awesome.
Now you would ask me when to use what?
When to use what?
You will get to know,
you will get this answer
as in when we move ahead in this course.
We would be using this import export so many times,
don't worry.
Okay, you will get your answer.
Now I'll tell you.
So what is this thing known as?
What is doing this known as?
What is doing this known as?
A lot of people will say,
this is known as destructuring, object destructuring.
Object destructuring.
Do you agree?
Is it object destructuring?
Yes or no?
Is it object destructuring?
Yes or no?
Yes, yes, no, no, no, no.
Let me tell you my dear friends,
this is not object destructuring.
This is not object destructuring.
This is not object destructuring.
Okay, it looks like I am destructuring from an object,
but it is not object destructuring.
If it was an object destructuring, right?
If it was an object destructuring,
we should be able to do something like this, right?
Suppose if the file exported an object, right?
Object, I could be able to do something like this, right?
constant my title right from object will this work will this work will this work no this
won't work this won't work right so that is why that is why but now you know that is
why we generally don't do that and you cannot even write OBJ dot title this is not that is
not a valid thing but suppose but suppose if you have to do if you have to export everything
over here suppose if there are two three exports right if you have to export everything from
here and use it over here so then you can do something like this export star as my OBJ
what you can do does that mean does that make sense you can do export star at OBJ and then
in your code you can write OBJ dot title cool you can do something like this so it will import
star means everything and then you can use OBJ dot title okay let me repeat it once again
everything right let me repeat it once again everything okay everything let me repeat it
once again so I moved my okay listen to me very carefully you know I will answer your
questions I know please I can't take all the questions like this let me explain it you will
get your answers I know what you are trying to say I I know you know I am a teacher I
have taught react so many times I know exactly what questions you will bug bill bug you I am
telling you your gag you will get your answers right so don't worry about it I will tell
you everything some people are writing why do you writing JS can we write JSX I will
answer all those questions just a moment give me some time I can explain you like
slowly only right please don't try to run fast in the discord channel also I see that
a lot of people are just asking question me which I will explain you in fifth session let's
go slow let's learn in deep right ask me questions let me finish come on like I mean I know you
are so excited to learn I am not saying it is bad to ask questions please okay so but
listen to me right once again I have not taught anything till now in the class if
you will do like this I won't be able to teach also okay cool so when I say fifth
session means fifth session from now right I will explain you after five sessions and
then like you will understand so what happens is I just created a file header dot
JS and I put put both of my components over here header dot header and title now I need
to import it in my app dot JS file suppose I was using like this right if I had my title
like this if I had to use my title like this right title as well as header but I have my
but I have both of these components in one file so how would I import it first of all
let us see how do I export from here I can do something like this okay I can export
both of these files like this okay export constant title export constant header okay
export constant header let us just do right and I can import it right let me just
collapse the code for now see I have exported both of the files I will import
it using the name import I can import it like this right I can import my
title like this I can import my title from my dot slash components slash header right
header I can import it like this okay and I can also I can also do something like
this right I can export import both of them when I have my named import okay I can export
both of them using my named import with these parenthesis so assume that this is like extracting
these two components from this file right when it is a named import when it when you use
export like this then you have to do it like this but suppose if my right suppose if my
header is a suppose if my header is a default export right default means it is exported
by default right it is exported by default from this class right is it exported by
default from this class right now what will happen you can you can import it without
destructuring let's not call it destructuring without extracting it from here so you can do
something like this does this make sense does this syntax make sense cool guys has this
mixed syntax make sense so this means you would see a lot of times you know when I
started learning react I went to the project and I saw people doing all this right people
doing all this and I used to wrap up my head what are they doing I never understood
this concept but this is the same thing like because now I'll write something and let me
know if this makes sense okay if this makes sense to you or not I am teaching you amazing
stuff right so if I do something like react comma create root right no sorry react
dom comma create root right we did write something like this create root now you
understood why we are doing this understood why we are doing this because create root will
be exported as a named import here somebody would have in the react team written like this
got it got it so that is why we follow these type of conventions and if there is a default
export then you can just use it without like this right we don't want this you can just
use it like this if there is a default export here make sense okay okay right now there is
one more way okay so one more way is right one more way is does your okay I'll tell you
one more thing okay does your does your does this name has to be the same right does this
name have to match this name No in the default export when you export by default you can rename
it you can rename it new header right let's rename it new header right so if you give it new header
you can just use your new header here right you can just use your new header over here
let me remove this title you can just use your new header over here understand these
are very small things you can use your new header over here right and because i have exported it by
default it does not need to have the same name but this needs them to be same should this be same
yes or no yes because otherwise it won't get to know which file we are calling right this needs
to be same don't mess up with this file you can play with this but but but always try to
keep it the same because it's a good practice otherwise you know you will write new header
and some other fellow developer will mess up it head where is my new header okay so try to be consistent
try to be consistent okay don't try to do random stuff in your code okay so try to be predictable
okay cool right and there is one more thing i'll tell you one more important thing i'll tell
you now you can ask me akshay why did you write whenever we import right whenever we include anything
we include the file names right we include file names wherever we want to but here i am not
including file name should i write header dot j s this works great this works great this will work
this also works okay many people don't know it many people don't know it right you can
write header dot j s over here it will work fine right i am telling you all the different type cases
right all the cases right so you can write your header dot j s now there is one more thing right
some some people some people there is a debate in the developer community in the react community
there is a debate some people like to rename their files right they like to name their files as
header dot j sx right because it is not a normal javascript file right this contains react code
this contains j sx code so sometimes some people want to use dot j sx some people say that i will
always put a j sx so when you put a j sx can you use something like this header dot j sx
yes this is also valid in the industry every people do all sort of things in the industry
people do all sort of things right so i want you to be capable suppose if you went to a company
and the company is using this convention of writing j sx after every file it is also fine
right it is also fine there is no difference it's just a file format it is one and the same thing
kind of like the same thing right but but but some of the libraries right the external libraries
that you use some of the libraries track your file using the extensions track your files
using the extensions so sometimes this can break sometimes this can break when you are using
an external library but don't worry normally it is completely fine to use a dot j s or dot j sx
you know i i personally now you would ask me akshay what should i do now you would ask yes
if you're using typescript you write t sx right so now you would ask me that akshay what should
i do what should i do what you will do i will always name my file as header dot j s
now don't ask me why it is just my convention of using it i like to do it this way okay so
header dot j s is one i will use you can use whatever you wish to over in your project and
you can skip to write this and you can write j s also if you wish to it's completely fine
right completely fine i like j s so i am just putting it dot j sx right so otherwise you
can use both cool and then over here i will use this convention but that does not mean that you
cannot put j s over here you can put this right following the convention okay understood right
don't ask me again when i will code right so i will just use this quickly quickly you should be able
to do it now let us just quickly revise things up right right let us just quickly revise some
things up okay quickly so i have my export okay i am i am writing you have you you have to answer me
okay export default right i have exported two constants here right how will i import both of them
how will i import both of them write full write full exactly everybody like people are right
so you have to do header and title something like this okay header comma title
makes sense okay everybody understood now you can do something like this also star as
star as my x y z component star as x y z okay and let us try if this works or not
can i write x y z dot x y z dot header will this work do you think this will work
do you think this will work now understood why we did now understood why we sometimes
write react dot fragment did you understand that was this cool right cool in the chat if this was cool
cool right now you understood what is happening behind the scenes understood okay so whenever
you see something don't panic you know whenever you see something don't panic there are different
ways like developers code always try to understand that what they are doing if you know the basics
never will you worry a lot of people were getting doubts like why sometimes i use my
brackets and why sometimes i use this so you can do something like this right so basically like this
right so now right you can you can write this header as well like this if there is a named
import right but generally generally what i will do now akshay what should i follow
so i try to follow export default right export default from my components right export default
header i always try to follow this convention i do not export whatever i don't need it i don't
need title right i don't need my title in my app.js i need my title inside my header file over here
so i don't want to export it okay i will keep it like this and my export default header i will
try to always use export default my component from my file so that it is very clean i i don't
like this curly braces i will only use curly braces when it is required and i will tell you
when it is required and when i will use it i will most of the times most of the times right
i will try to use it like this okay make sense okay let me drink my drink a little water 30 seconds
break drink your water okay go drink your water and we'll come back i have a lot to cover today
i can't stop no five minutes just one minute break it is 12 11 right now okay it is 12 11
i just quickly want to start yeah okay let me just give you the discord link okay i'll give you the
discord link don't worry so the discord link i am just pinning the comment okay join the discord
discord community with this link okay join the discord community with this link do it right now
okay join the discord community with the link over here whosoever has not joined
have you joined yes or no people who haven't joined right know in the comments people who
haven't joined right know in the comments no okay shubham join it shubham please join it shubra
please join it hemanta please join it sukh mitha aditya please join the discord right now
do it right now hi shubham thank you so much man okay so and whosoever finds the link
invalid please write an email to support okay we'll help you come on let us just start again okay
so you understood what is the like write down your homework in your notebook named import
different ways to export export default how do you import a default export how do you import a
named export how do you what happens when you write a star as and what happens how can you name
your files everything you should know okay these are things that we know right we should know right
let us now try to create different components for the other files as well let us create a new
file for body component you know as in when we will do more we will understand all of that
right so right so now some people are asking akshay you did not export it title how will
you use it inside app so i am not using title in my app i am using title over here only right in the
header file so you don't have to when you are in the same file you don't have to export it right
okay so let's go back over here in the components let's just quickly create a body.js okay body.js
and i will have you know you will understand it properly you know it is very easy it is the
first time you are doing that is why it is taking time but otherwise in our whole classes right we will
be doing so many times this import export that you will understand it so much right you will never
have a problem with it default body right so i'll just have my export default body how will i
import it over here how will i import it over here i'll just import my body right import body
from here right so i have imported my body let me just quickly do it for my footer as well right
let's create a footer.js right let's create a footer.js and now i want to have my footer
over here right so now i want to have my footer.js file and let me just export default footer
okay some people are asking what can i create my app.js inside components yes you can create nobody
is asking you to like you can restructure our folder as much as you can i like to follow this
convention so i'm doing this you can try it out in your projects try out different
folder structures whatever you like now listen to me very important thing now listen to me very
important thing right okay now listen to very important thing are you there with me listen to
me very important thing we also have to create a config file i love to create a config file in
my project okay i love to create a config file in my project what do you put in the config file
what should i put in my config file so i put all the hard coded things into my config file
i will put all the hard coded things into my config file that's a good convention to use it
now i'll tell you why right you people are so curious i just love your curiosity you can
say that actually what should i put in config file and why do i need a config file right
so suppose if you have this url right we have this swiggy url and we were using this hard
coded string so suppose today i am having this url at one place in my app right in just i am
just using this url in my app.js right suppose tomorrow i want to use it right suppose tomorrow
i want to use it in some other folder right so i will again copy paste this right again copy paste
this thing right i can if suppose there are thousand components out of which 10-20 components
needs this link right leaves this url right so i i want to just import it from the one place
i want to put this into a central place kind of like a global variable not a global variable
but kind of like a place right one place so that is why i create a config file
right okay so some people say that okay akshay why are you not naming this as a constants
file so in some companies you use the word constants file as well it is one and the
same thing you can use constants file as well okay don't worry about the names it's it's
okay to use any name call it config call it constant some people you know create different
files for different environments you know some people like to create these files different
for production different for staging and different for testing different for development
other other right so i just want to create one file right now to make things easy right
and let us just put this url into my config or a constants file okay let's just use constant
only now okay when we have named the file constants let's use constant let's call this as
what should i call this as give me a good name let's call this as let's call this as
image cdn img cdn url okay let's give it as img cdn url right let's let's give it right
you can give any name now if i want to use this in my app.js how will i use this
will writing this work will writing this work image cdn url will this work
no because you need to you you need to import it import from your constant file and now i want
to import it do you think that it is a good idea to export default image cdn is it a good idea
yes or no no it's not a good idea right so what should i do named import or default import
named import or default import we will do a named import over here i will do a name sorry
export not import sorry right so name export right and then i will just import over here right
how will i import it now what will i use now what will i use quickly tell me should i use
curly parenthesis or not right so i can use my img cdn url from my .constants does that make sense
okay let me go back and see if that works okay footer is not defined yes footer is not defined
why is this error coming quickly why is this error coming because i did not imported my footer
import footer from footer okay so we have my footer now it says now it says that restaurant list
not defined okay basically i have changed my name or something yeah yeah so it is saying
restaurant list not defined inside my body so now my restaurant list is over here
and my body needs this restaurant list right my body needs this restaurant what should i do
i'll ask you what should i do i'll ask you what should i do
exactly so i'll put my restaurant list in my constants file right let us put all the hard
coded data into my constant file okay let us put all the hard coded data into my constant file
does that make sense okay and i will just export it from here right i will just export
this from here and i will just import it into my body i think this is spelling is not right
restaurant pardon my spelling stress i don't exactly write this a lot restaurant list right
so i have exported this and now i am importing it in my body right not in my body i am importing it
in the body.js file okay restaurant list from from my constants right now where is my constant
file what should i write in over here data slash constants okay and let us use the same
what is this issue restaurant card is not defined okay why did i use dot dot over here
did you understand that okay you understood right if you don't understand that then just
find it out this is your homework okay now let me import my restaurant card also where is
my restaurant card my restaurant card is in app.js is it a good idea to keep this over here
should i make a new file or not yep let us create a new file okay so let us create a new
file let us create a new file for it right let's create a restaurant card.js right oh
shit i did i did something i missed something out okay we will need this image cd and url
also let me copy this also okay right and now let me just export default okay and let me just rename
this also right i think the spelling is not correct restaurant card.js okay now where do i
need to include this in my body right let us just import any doubts till now any doubts
now does the code look cleaner i am going very slow i need to rush fast now okay i will go a
little faster now should i do this am i doing it right nobody is complaining nobody is complaining
in the chat i did a default in default export you should tell me okay cool let me just use my name
cool why is it bugging now it says dot slash constants oh did i did i do something over here
it should be dot dot slash constants okay okay okay my dear friends yep yep so we have our app
working now the code looks cleaner isn't it now if you see my app.js file i am super happy
now i can totally understand now i can totally understand that what is happening inside my app
so always keep your code cleaner and maintainable okay this is what i wanted to tell you the first
part of this today's session let us move to the second part very quickly because i have to cover
a lot of things okay i have covered a lot of things already but let me just uh go ahead right
some people are asking where should we keep our css files right so generally we will be using
tailwind css later on right we will be using tailwind css and later on for that you don't need
any css files right don't worry we will be using tailwind you don't have to use it for now
just keep your css over here only in one file okay keep your css one file okay cool so let's
just go ahead and build something today right what did we leave to build right last time we did
something right last time i told you that we we were building things up what was left to build
what was left to build where is my where is my app.js okay i don't see it right
it was up here right so we were left to build this search bar component isn't it we were
so let us today build a search functionality on with me understood should i explain what is
search functionality no right okay let's build search so where do i need my search i need my
search inside my body okay let's go to body.js file okay now i want my search to be just above
my restaurant list okay so i want my search function to be over here can i write a div like
this right let's give it a class name search container i'll give a class name search container
now it is bugging me what do i need over here to fix this quickly tell me react dot fragment
right so let's wrap it inside a react dot fragment okay so let's wrap it up like this
let's wrap it up like this right okay so now this ugly thing came up right so we have
this search container what should my search container have let's build a input box inside it
right how do i write my input box input tag type text right and let's give it some class name also
class name is equals to search input right placeholder is equals to search right and then let me just
close this right and what should my input also have what should my input also have
right input should also have my value isn't it some value which is there for now let me keep the value
as empty right so now if i see we have our input box over here right let us also build
a search button quickly right search button right let's call it as search
right and let's give it a class name is equals to search btn okay so we have got our search input
and search button with us now if i try to write something inside my input box see i am trying
to write something it's not working it's not working why it is not working why it's not
working it is not working if i write the same code inside my html okay let me just show you one
important let me just show you one thing right if i write the same code in my html okay html
do you think this will work let us just write the same code inside my html okay here do you
think this will work see it's working it is not working over here why this is one more way to prove
that that input is not exactly this input right this is somehow being controlled by a react
okay this is somehow being controlled by a react okay so now how will i make this input works
listen to me very carefully okay one more thing right what happens in jsx if i write these parenthesis
what happens what can i write inside this any piece of js right so suppose if i have a variable
which is known as constant search txt search text is equals to my maybe let's name it kfc right
i am searching for kfc okay and i put my search text over here right i put my search text over here
will the value go inside this value will the value go inside this value yes or no
see it went but i am not able to edit it why am i not able to edit it
why am i not able to edit it because it is a hard coded value oh somebody wrote this is
a constant that's why we can't change the constant so if i make it let yeah nice question
right if i make it a let it will it work will this work if i make it a let
so if i save it will this work no it won't work right so react uses react you know react
uses one-way data binding okay you need to bind your data you know you need to bind
one-way data binding there is one-way data binding in react what does that mean
let me explain you listen to me carefully okay so you can you need suppose if you have a variable
right you can put the value variable but you need to somehow modify this variable as in when
i am writing as in when i am writing you need to modify this variable to make it work right
you need to modify this variable understood does that make sense yes or no so this is one-way data
binding okay this is kind of like one-way data binding that you have this you have put in value
so this value will come up but from this input we can't change my search text
from this input if i write something it won't change the search text right so we need to
change this search text somehow how will i do that on change if i write on change over here
okay and i write my update or maybe on change input okay i am creating a function on change input
so this is how you write a on change method in your react right on change input so this
on change input right takes a function right it takes a function right and this function basically
is a callback function which has a event over here right so whenever input is changed this
function will be called okay whenever input is changed this function will be called how do i
see it let us just see once okay i'll show it to you otherwise you will ask me akshay it is not
making sense to me right so if i if i write something over here my c this is being called
do you see do you see the console yes or no right so my input will change right this on
change when my input is changing i am writing console log right now if i i also get a e over
here you know this is provided by react now i can do something like e dot target dot value
target dot value right e dot target dot value right now what will happen is what will happen is
if i now write something right if i write q w e r t y i am writing q w e r t y now see what is what is
it showing whatever i am trying to write is being showed over here right because the value was kfc
and i am trying to write kfc and i am trying to write q over here or a over here so it is coming
over here does that make sense yes or no e dot target dot value is also available in javascript
yes right so see kfc is already a value okay right now we already have a value kfc now if i am trying
to write something extra apart from kfc a s d f see it says kfc a kfc s kfc d kfc f but
why is it not getting printed over here very important question very important question
very important question yeah like if you understand this you will understand a lot of things in react
if you understand things right what happens is whenever you change right whenever you change
something whenever you write something inside this you know react re-renders this component
but the value is always kfc the search text we have hard coded it right how will it go right
we have hard coded this value right we need to somehow modify this value did it make sense
cool so now what makes sense is okay so if i am changing and i know what am i typing
can i just can i just change my value from here right will this work let us just change it
let us just put our search text right let us just put our search text is equals to e dot target
dot value right and then my search dot text becomes this and then this will like this will like
go on updating and it will update everything it won't work right it won't work like this as well
it won't work like this as well right it won't work i am typing it's not working so how will you
make it work how will you make it work right to make this work what i am trying to say is
that local variables like this are not preferred in react whenever you have to change any variable
inside react whenever you have to change any variable inside react that you use suppose if
i have to just use my search text one at one place over here right if i just wanted to have my
search text rendered here right search text then i can use this right but if we need to
maintain a variable that changes right if you need to maintain a variable that changes itself
then you need to maintain a variable that is a react kind of a variable right that you need to
maintain a variable that is a react variable what is a react variable what is a react variable
the react variable is kind of like a state variable okay every component listen to me very
carefully very carefully if you don't understand this then it will be very problem for you okay
so every component in react maintains a state okay every component in react maintains a state right
so you can put some variables onto that state every component i am repeating it once again
every component in react maintains a state and you can put in all the variables into your
state and every time you have to create some local variables you use state in it
every time you have to create a local variable you use state inside react
now let's come on to what is state right what is state right state maintains right i'll tell you
so suppose if i have to create a local variable like this search text so i will create it
using something known as use state hook okay listen to me very carefully this is something new
we will we will use something known as use state hook now where does this use state hook come from
right we will use something known as use state hook how will i create let me show you the
latest way new way of creating variables okay so this is how i create my variables search
text okay search text this is how i create my variable and i will use something known as use
state hook right this is a use state hook right now there are a lot of questions in your mind
i'll i'll take it up what is state what is hooks what is use state what is use state right everybody
will ask these questions and then one question is what then is why right then is why right every
question will have a why is state there why we need hooks why we need to use use state
right i'll i'll answer all of them wait wait a while right so suppose if you have to create a
local variable in react you need to use this state variables okay those state variables are
created using a use state hook right so hooks are nothing hooks are nothing but kind of like
normal functions right at the end of the day a hook is just a function what is a hook
what is a hook it's just a function isn't it it's a hook is just a normal function
now this function right see that is why we call it like this right now that is why we call it
like this where do i get this function from right hook is nothing right it's very like it's it's
easy right a lot of people get confused hooks right react hooks is something very tough no
react hook is just a normal function just a normal function understand this right just
like functional components what is functional component at the end of the day what is functional
component at the end it's just a function hooks is just a javascript function react is built using
javascript javascript does not have fancy things javascript just works on basic stuff function
variables cons this that that's all right so hooks is just a normal function where do i get this
use state from i get my use state from i get my use state from my where can you guess can you
guess where i'll get my use state from i get it from react i will get it from react because react
and see just be careful you know just see this carefully i am exporting this as a named import
i am using a named import for it okay i will get my use state from my react can you guess who
wrote this use state who is who wrote this use state facebook developers wrote it for us and gave
it to us right so i have answered your questions about what is hook hook is just a normal function
nothing fancy thing but it has a specific function for it right every hook has a specific
function for it what is the function of this use state to create state variables to create
state variables now i'll tell you what is state variables before you ask me wait on hold on for a
while use state is used for create variables where does this use state come from it comes from
react library how do we import it we import it using a named variable okay you got answers to
these questions how do i use my use state so this function this function returns a array right
this function returns a array the first element of array is your variable name okay the function
this function returns a array and first variable of this array is the variable name
right and let me tell you that this search text search text search text is a local variable
local state variable okay let me explain come on let me at least explain let me at least explain
right search text is a is a local variable okay so local state variable because it is very
distracting i will forget what i have to teach then it won't be it you won't even understand
right just give me a moment now i have i have hidden the chat for a while now listen to me
carefully listen to me carefully won't let you say anything give me 15 minutes okay so what i'll
do is see once again first question what is hooks right what is hooks so hooks are nothing
but normal javascript functions at the end of the day these functions are written by Facebook
developers and this gives us some functionalities this hooks give us some functionalities there are
different types of hooks that we will use across our live course one of such one of the most
important hook is use state hook this use state hook is used to create state variables
is used to create local state variables okay how do you create local state variables how do you
create normal javascript variables you create normal javascript variables using const or let
right like this but in react we create local variables like this this is the syntax now you
might have a question why the syntax this is very ugly looking this will make sense to you
in a while just wait on hold on for a second just hold on for a second this will make sense to you
okay so but this use state variable comes as a named import from react library okay this comes as
a named import from this react library now how do i use my this use search text variable i can
use it like a normal variable right i can use it like a normal variable instead of this search
txt right i can get rid of this now i can use this variable right in a simple manner in a simple
way we can use it like this right right now you would ask me akshay but i gave a default value
of kfc over here right and if i write search txt so kfc came in over here right kfc was there
right so how do i give a default value to my use state variable how do i give my default value this
kfc value to my use state variable right so i'll tell you let me write search text so you give the
default value like this okay you give the default value like this over here okay so assume that
this is how you create a variable in normal javascript this is how you create a local state
variable in react okay this is how you create a local state variable in react right does that
make sense now tell me i am i am i am repeating everything once again okay i am repeating
everything once again okay react has something known as react hooks at the end of the day all of
these hooks are functions right functions we will learn to create our own hooks also we will learn
to create our own hooks also right don't worry about that we will learn to create our own hooks
we will understand everything even if something doesn't you don't understand right now we will
learn it properly we will dive deep and create our own hook don't worry we will create our own
custom hook then you will understand why we are creating those right but these hooks come with
some functionality it is used to create local variables so just like i have written search text
kfc and i wrote search text and that kfc was there right similarly i can so assume that this
is how you create it in javascript this is how you are creating it in react okay now i will just use
this right let me comment it down for reference okay for reference i am just commenting it down
now when we did an on change we were modifying my search text like this search text is equals
to e dot target dot value right we will modifying our search text with e dot target dot value
right but but but react says that you cannot directly modify your variable over here like this
so if i want to modify this variable i cannot directly modify it something like this i cannot
do that if i try to modify this variable like this i cannot do that how do i how can i modify this
variable i can only modify this variable using a function where will i get this function the
u state gives us that function and we call that function as set search text okay this is a good
convention to follow again there this is a good practice to write set and then the variable name
so suppose if your variable is search text then you can write set search text okay you can write
set search text okay this is not a hard check right you can write any name over here just verify it
once okay react might have you know react might have like enforced you to write set over here
but i don't think so you can maybe name anything you want to but if you are going into the
industry if you are working on some projects then always try to follow this naming convention set
and then the name of variable in a camel case okay so it's a good practice to write so suppose if my
variable name was search input what what should be my variable name over here this function name
it should be set search input right and now now let me tell you how do i modify my variable
right how do i use this function so when you have to modify you don't do a search text is
equals to whatever value you want to feed it you do a set search text set search input
and then whatever we need to fill into this input you give it like this fill into this input
you give it like this what i want to fill it over here what do i have to fill in over here
e dot target dot value basically e dot target dot value what is e dot target dot value
e dot target dot value is basically your whatever i am writing in the input box okay now if you
don't know this go read javascript this is not react this is javascript whatever you write in input
okay so whatever i am writing in input i want to put it inside my search variable right this
search input and my search input is now a value for my input box okay cool so
now let us just go and see if this works so if i go and see now kfc xyz now see it is working fine
it is working fine cool so now i am able to type in but but but let us just see whether it is
even working or not right whether it is working or not right so now there must be a lot of
questions right let me answer one by one why do i need state i'll tell you why do i need state right
but let me finish this first okay so let us see it working how will i get to know whether
i am getting whatever i write inside it suppose if i write akshay inside it
does this akshay went into this how will i get to know how will i get to know i can do a console
or let me just write something like this can i use like this yes because it's a local variable
it's a normal javascript variable okay let us just try to write in like this okay and let us write
it inside a button okay let us write it inside a button search hyphen okay search hyphen i am
doing it like this right this is just a normal variable okay so if i write in over here if
i change in see my search input is changing see do you see this happening does it work
see this cool thing it's just expanding the text search bar
cool right so whatever i am writing it is getting updated in my local variable right
okay so let people just read it for a while i will repeat this once again this full thing
i will repeat it once again okay full thing once again okay just give me a moment i will
repeat everything full once again okay i know this is important and if you understand this
your journey to learning react will become super smooth super smooth don't worry we will
take in a lot of important questions as well don't worry okay i'll repeat it once again
everything right from scratch okay right from scratch so you know input does not work like this
okay input does not work like this in react right input does not work like this in react
input does not work like this in react right so when you write input you need to do
data binding to it you need to do a manual data binding in angular and some other frameworks
there is two way data binding in AngularJS I remember I used to code in AngularJS there
used to be two way data binding so if I used to write something like this right if I used
to write something like this now const search text search text right is equals to KFC right
and if I give in search text something like this it's not exact what what used to happen
and if I change my input so this variable used to change automatically it used to happen
in in Angular a lot of people might understand there is two way data binding there is something
known as ng model and whatnot right in react it does not work that way in react it does not work
that way and I we will we will see that why is it that I will I will discuss those things
also just let me finish it okay so there is one way data binding in react it's not
right it's very easy once you understand this it is very easy okay so if I have to make a normal
variable I can't do it right this search text KFC if I write this value right it will go inside this
value right it will go inside this value it will come in over here but it won't work
it won't work right it won't update in itself why it is a good thing let me tell you
why it is a good thing that it does not updates you know when we do this right when we update it
in two way right what happens is your app becomes unpredictable because you might be using search text
at so many places right you don't know where in your app this variable is getting modified
you won't understand that where is your how is your search text getting modified right
you won't know right it will be very tough for us to like wrap our head around
and it will not be good for optimization also you will get to know later so that is why react
said that if you have to create local variables created using a use state variable use state hook
right this use state hook this use state hook is a normal function right this use state hook
returns a array right this use state hook this use state hook right returns a array right this
returns a array what what does the array looks like right what does the array looks like array has
the first item as the variable name variable name and the second item is the set function
how do you update the variable function to update the variable okay and we call this as a state variable
okay that is why we use destructuring to do something like this we do when we write like
this right we are destructuring it search text and we use set search text right if you
find the syntax confusing okay i'll give you one more thing suppose if my use state is giving me
search variable search where right i can do something like this i can destructure like this also
is equals to search where does this make sense now does this make sense not many people know this
not many people know this because most of the times you will find this written in your code
you will always find this written in your code just to simplify i am showing you that you can do
something like this also you can do something like this also i am just showing you try it out
you should be able to do this see as per my javascript knowledge i am just saying that this
should work okay i can be wrong also sometimes but this will work for sure right this is destructuring
that is happening okay it's normal normal javascript destructuring okay so now in the local variable
so this is you know this this variable this this way of creating a local variable in react
is equivalent to creating something like this okay is equivalent to creating like this right
const sr search text okay s text okay is equals to this these two lines you can assume are similar
this is javascript this is react now if i have to give it some value by default it is hello right
by default if it is hello then you have to give your default over here does this make sense
does this make sense does this make sense right so if you have to write see this is equivalent to
this in is just initializing not giving any default value initializing a variable not
giving any default value right small thing i am just telling you very very small things
very very small things okay so this is basically initializing it but not putting any value in it
if you have to declare a variable like this right hello so you do it here okay understood
now some people would some people are asking that why did why is this an array does it make
sense this is a convention which react follows right because you know you have to given two
so react could have done it like made an object because see anytime you create a variable react
gives you the variable and then a method to update it so you always need some way to do it
either it could have given an object either it could have given have array so i don't know why
but react k i don't know right i mean to be very honest i don't know but this is how this is how react
facebook developers made it like this okay because it's a compact way right it makes sense
you know once you get used to it it's very easy to write right it's very easy you understand
exactly what you are doing right and now set search state right you need if suppose you want to
set something you need to use set search state how do i update my search text first of all when do i
need to update it i need to update my set search state whenever i am typing something over here right
if i am typing something over here i need to update my this variable how do i update it
i will write a on change method okay on change method so in html remember in html if i write
an input tag right if i write an input tag so how do i write on change i write something like this
right and over here i call some function i call some function like this right but in react you use
a camel case you use on change and then here you can use jsx right that is react okay let's go
back to react i am just telling you a difference don't get confused right i am telling you very
small things so on change here you get a function i am using arrow functions you can use normal functions
also and this function automatically gets an event property right from this event property
i can read whatever i am typing whatever i am typing over here i can read it i can read it okay so
so i can do a e dot target dot value and my e dot target dot value will contain whatever i am typing
in so i want to update this variable with this value right so i will do a set search text
right set search text and then i will do it like this and this will modify my search text
variable does that make sense read about synthetic events read about these events this is javascript
not react okay does that make sense and now my variable works properly right now my variable
also gets updated suppose if i write something like this right suppose if i have my h1 tag
let's have a h1 tag over here h1 tag and in my h1 let us just see how my input box is getting
updated right how my input box is getting updated search text right let us just see i
have printed it inside my h1 tag i can use this as a local variable any like normal local way
see it came over here right so i can write anything it is updating real time what is this
what is this thing known as what is this thing known as this is known as two-way binding
binding this is known as two-way binding because i am updating my search text and it is getting
updated and it is putting the value inside it also right putting the value we are reading
as well as writing here i am reading search text here i am writing search text here i
this see here i am reading search text here i am writing search text both at the same time
quickly quickly quickly quickly and people who know javascript try to write make such functionality
in javascript you will mess up your head when you do that you will mess up your head when you
have to write this code in javascript and if you write that code in javascript then
what will happen is it will just mess up your head and it will be very non-performant
if you try to build the same thing in javascript it will be very non-performant right okay cool
so always use your state variables this is what i wanted to know now let's come back to
few questions clarifying questions okay let's come let's come to few clarifying questions okay
now now now we have got this search text variable okay now i have got my onchange method
which is updating my state variable now what does use state return what does use state return
come on quickly array array has two first is variable second is this how do i put my default
value i put my default value here if i don't put my default value it is like initializing
variable like this a colon so i have just said that s is something i have not given any value
if i don't put any value here it will be like that right so this is the way react creates variable
now now a very important great important interview question what is why do we need
the state variables when we had local variables why do i need these state variables right why do
i need these state variables because you know react whenever a variable changes right
suppose if you have a normal variable suppose i made a constant right suppose i made a constant
let const right is equals to 10 and and my const somebody updated my const somebody
updated my const react would not know that i have to update the DOM suppose i am using this
const variable right over here if suppose i am using this const variable over here right
let's name is at constant okay let's name this variable as constant suppose i am using this
variable over here right suppose i am using this variable so my react will not know
react will not know when i have updated suppose if some function updated this to 11 right
so my react would not know that i have to change it in ui right react will not know i have to
change it in ui suppose this is 11 now i clicked on this button suppose i clicked on home and
my variable got updated to 12 will this re-render will this update in the ui
will this update in the ui once again once again once again react has no idea react has no idea what
is happening to all your variables right react does not have any idea about whatever variable
you have created you can create thousands of variable in your app react does not know about
them right and react can't keep that can't keep tracking each variable so react says that i am not
keeping a track of these variables right if suppose constant suppose i wrote a wrote a on click on home
button right suppose i am a crazy developer i have written if i click on home home just update
this variable right so react won't re-render react will just print 11 it won't go to 12
or it won't go to whatever you update this variable to right to do that react says that
every time you want your variables to be in sync with the ui every time you want your
variables to be in sync with the ui you need to use your state variables does that make sense
does that make sense yes or no right yes or no does that make sense yes some people are saying no
let me repeat it once again for you otherwise go go see the recording once again it will make
sense so react has one way winding right you need you can use local variables right why so there
is a question in interview that why do i need this state variables why do i need the state in
itself right so suppose if you have a local variable a is equals to 10 right suppose if somebody some
other component just changed it right just change this a variable right so what will happen is react
will not know that i have to update a over here because this is gsx right react will not know that
a got changed suppose if some in header or somewhere i just changed my a react will not know
react will not know so what will happen is react will not know so what will happen is
i have to create a state variable and all the state variables that you create react
keeps keeps a track of all of them react is watching these state variables and whenever i am
updating my search text whenever i am updating my search text what will happen is it will automatically
re-render it will automatically re-render my component okay i am not taking a break right now
otherwise this will like go off right i want to finish it right i don't want to take a break
right now so stop asking for a break okay so okay i'll tell you one more thing okay i'll tell
you one more thing make it very clear because this is important okay let's create one more state variable
you will understand okay let's create a state variable okay call it as search clicked search
clicked and let's make it false right now and if i click on my search button it should be updated to
true does that make sense does that make sense okay okay so if i have my search clicked it goes to
false now let us just create this in react way how do i write this in react way i'll write an array
i'll build a search clicked right and i will do set search clicked what should i write it inside
you state what should i write inside you state false right let's use a boolean false in here right
so i created a variable local variable search clicked now i will modify now let us just see
what is the value of this search clicked how do i see let me just render it somewhere
let me just have a h1 tag to see that right search clicked h1 tag where is my h1 tag
h1 tag right so i have my h1 tag so what will get printed over here this is my local variable
what will get printed over here false right where is it where is my h1 did i save this cool okay
just a minute just a minute okay okay it is false because it is it won't print right it's
it won't print because boolean are not printed okay so let's let's create it false
that's what i understood it is it is javascript at the end of the day right
so it it just said true right it did not print i was afraid what happened so it should print
false right now what will i do is now i want to when i click on search it should change to true
how will i build this functionality right so some people are asking why why why tell me
why akshay why did not got printed why did not got printed because what what will it got printed
have you ever tried to print console log true have you ever tried to print console log true
just try to print console log true once you will get your answer okay so find it out yourself
this is javascript and i'm i'm just just listen to variable okay so i have this local variable
i set it to false okay now when i click on my search it should set to true okay it should set to true
okay so okay if it should set to true here i'll write on click does that make sense if i write
on click now on click takes a function do i need a event over here do i need a e over here
i don't need a e over here i don't need a e over here why i don't need because i don't like
i don't want that event i don't want to read value or something right you can write a empty
function here when so this function will be called when this search will be clicked on click call
this function when you on click i want to modify this variable how will i modify this
i will use my set search clicked set search clicked so if i write my set search click
and i will set my search clicks to true and my save it okay now let me just go back refresh the
page and let us just click on search see it changed to true does that make sense does this make sense
yeah okay so so basically this is how you update now how did my UI got updated
how did my UI got updated what is happening behind the scenes what is happening behind the
scenes i'll tell you i'll tell you what is happening behind the state i'll tell you what
is happening behind the state okay this will this will strong this will strong this will make your
concepts foundation very strong okay when i click on search right so you understood right first of
all why is it printing false why is it printing false because this is a local variable the default
value is false right and i have used it like this right now when you create a variable using
use state react is watching this variable react is watching this variable react keeps a track of what
variables did you create in your app now whenever my variable is updated my whole component
re-renders my whole component re-renders do you know react what it is doing it is just
destroying this body component and creating the body once again and it is happening very fast
it is happening very fast and it is updating this it is updating this h1 reconciliation is
happening exactly i was looking for this time yeah this is what is happening you forget everything
you forget everything so i told you in the last class that react will create your tree
and virtual dome and it will keep a track of what is getting updated isn't it
right so that diff algorithm is happening behind the scenes and when the diff algorithm happens
the react says that earlier the value was false now the value is true so what should i re-render
what should i re-render what will be re-rendered it will just re-render this h1 component
react is very smart react is very smart it will just re-render this h1 it will just
replace this h1's false to true let's just see it in elements okay if i click if i click on see
where is my false let's go to body i think it should it should be visible here right
this is false right let me click on it just keep watching don't watch on the top watch here
okay keep watching this keep watching this now i'll show you the reconciliation happening in life
are you excited see this h1 h1 h1 will change okay let us just click one two three see did
you see it changed did you see it changed quickly so react just re-renders this portion of your
DOM this is why react is fast this is why react is fast it is doing a diff algorithm it has created
a virtual DOM of what is virtual DOM it is a representation of this actual DOM right it
is kind of like a tree it finds out the difference it finds out oh my god okay only this h1 is
updated okay then let us just change h1 over here it is very quick right this is what is react doing
right let's show let me show you once again some people are saying show me once again okay
so this is false right see nothing will be changed this whole component h this whole
components html will remain the same only this will change okay just see it once okay
and i'll just show you i'm clicking on search okay three two one click did you see it yep
some people are asking can i make it change once again yes you can make it change once again
you can create a toggle okay how will i create a toggle so if it is false change it to true
if it is true change it to false how will i do that how will i write that kind of code
let's let's try to do that okay let's try to write that so in my on click right i will set it to true
but i want to only set it to true if it is already false how will i do that i will write
if my search clicked if my search clicked is equal equal to true true what should i make it
what should i do what should i do i'll make it to false listen to just understand these small
things if you understand these small things it will be very easy for you else just set it to false
i am writing it very naively right you can use a ternary operator and whatnot okay
does this make sense does this condition make sense give me a thumbs up give me a thumbs up
give me a thumbs up okay this this statement makes sense search clicked is true make it false oh sorry
i wrote it wrong sorry sorry my bad guys my bad and let us see this in action okay let's refresh
the page it's false now let's go back to our body let's go back to our root let's go back to our
body component let's go back search container sorry search container and here is false right
if i click on my search see what is happening it happened true now if i click on it once again
it happening false now see what what portion of dom is getting updated isn't it amazing
right it's amazing right this is why react is fast because it is using a diff algorithm
behind the scenes it is using reconciliation it is using everything right that is why i say
reconciliation op that is why you have to watch my previous lecture and read about reconciliation
understood now some people are asking does angular change everything i really don't
know about angular i have not read a lot of angular i am not sure what they are using behind the
scenes now people are saying where can you see virtual dom i really don't know it is hidden
behind the scenes it's that react code which is doing something working inside the scene it's
not it's not abstract that you can see it anywhere no you cannot just see it like that
okay so now that is this is this is reconciliation in action this is your diff algorithm in action
right okay so virtual dom is not a it's a concept but at the end of the day this whole
dom right html dom is represented right maybe it's it's assume that it's a very big object and it is
kind of finding a difference between two objects it's like a git diff right assume that the diff
algorithm is somewhat changing this right and it only said that okay my h1 has changed see only my
this is changed okay assume it like that okay so i don't know how to see that behind the scenes
right but you understood right i have stressed it enough nobody takes one hour to teach state and
props okay so i have i have spent a lot of time on this very right let me just let me just
why let me just let's make this search work i am not going anywhere i am not taking any
break until i make this search work i want to search here and my restaurant should filter out
i am not going anywhere you are hungry you go watch the recordings i am also hungry but i am
waiting over here to learn i am hungry to learn okay i am hungry over there in my stomach also
but i am hungry to learn okay i'll make this search work because i have to move fast i i have to
move fast right let's move right okay so i will make this search work let us make this search
work okay cool so let me get rid of this second variable okay so now with all the knowledge
we have right let us just try to write now when we click on the search button what we need to do
let's keep the on click here what i need to do when we click on the search button
need to filter the data right what is this data what data we need to filter this restaurant list right
this restaurant list i need to filter right so need to filter the data right so we will
filter the data let's create a function filter data right and let's filter the data okay and
what after that what we will do when we have filtered the data then we want to update this
restaurant list can i update this restaurant list how will i update this restaurant list
how will i update this restaurant list i cannot update it directly i cannot update it directly
we will have to make a state variable for this okay we will have to make a state variable for
this so basically what we will do is to maintain the list of restaurant we will maintain a state
we will maintain a state variable okay so earlier i was just importing it directly right
i was importing this directly right over here and i was rendering all these components
but now what i will do i will use a local variable okay i will use a local variable
how would i use a local variable i'll write something like okay restaurant restaurants
okay restaurants and a set restaurant right and then how do i create my variables
use state now quickly tell me what should be the default value over here quickly tell me
quickly tell me what should be the default value by default my restaurant should have
the dummy data right that data that we had so let's have this as default value isn't it
i'm just creating a local variable don't no need to be afraid right
no need to be afraid right i'm removing this also okay what i have done is i have created
a local variable i have given the default value can i use my restaurant dot can i use this now
will this work will this work i'm refreshing the page yes or no right what happened oh
search click is not defined okay let me get rid of this old old code here see this worked
right so i created a react variable restaurant and i i am now restoring the restaurant now what i
will do if i will if i will suppose if i will in my restaurant pass in filter data
suppose i i updated my restaurant with filter data will the list change will the list change
right yes so what i will do i will just modify my restaurant because i am doing a restaurant
dot map modify this local variable with the filter data how will i do that i will do it on
click of this button so i'll do a filter the data and then update the state and what is the state
state is my restaurant variable rest star rent variable okay this restaurant's variable i'll update
how do i filter the data right let me write that function filter data let me write that function
filter data okay let's create a function filter data okay let's create a function filter data
where should i create it let's create it over here so this is a separate function all together
this is a separate function it has nothing to do with anything right let's just quickly write
okay our filter algorithm how will i write our filter algorithm filter data right
what do i need to filter what do i need to filter we need to filter these restaurant list
using the using the input whatever i am typing over here how will i get my input
how will i get my input my input is inside my search text right so i will give my search text
right i will give my filter data my search text that this is the text you have to search
and where you have to search this text in your list of restaurant can i do this does this make
sense does this make sense i will search my text inside my restaurant and give me the filter data
this is what this function is going and whatever data we will get right suppose if i get this
data here right i will update my restaurant with that data i will update my how do i update my
restaurant with that data quickly for the people who don't know so i will just filter my
data and i will get the data and i will just update my restaurant how do i update my restaurant
local variable using set restaurant what do i pass in over here i'll pass in my data okay
and what will happen is now i can write my filter algorithm this has nothing to do with
react this is normal javascript now okay let me repeat it once again let me repeat it once
again quickly i'll repeat everything once again okay what did i do let me repeat it once again
so what did i do earlier i was directly using my list which was coming from constant that data we
data we took from swiggy right so that data was just rendering normally right we will just
importing it and we will rendering it directly and this is a constant file i cannot modify
this restaurant list right but here when i click on the search i need to filter data here right
i need to filter data over here so what i will do is i need a way to modify this restaurant
so if i have to modify this i have to create a local variable here i created a local variable
i created a set restaurant variable this is a function that will update this restaurant
right and now we will use this right so how do i use this on click off my search button
if i click on this search button what should happen is my search text this search text should
filter in the restaurants i will pass in my restaurant and the search text now i will
write a filter algorithm here right some filter algorithm but assume that filter algorithm gave us
some data here right this is filtered data this is filtered list of restaurant this list of restaurant
is what array of objects here we have six restaurant info suppose my filter data will
have only three three list three restaurant right suppose my filter data only has three restaurant
so only three restaurant will be updated here okay so let us just try to filter it what will i get
over here search text restaurant okay how will i filter okay how will i filter we will do something
known as restaurant dot filter those who don't know how this filter works right go read javascript
right this is a normal javascript filter method right so i am just filtering these restaurant
so some people are saying can you just directly filter this can you write it like this yes you
can do that too you can do that too but i will use my local variable right i will use my local
variable this is a this is a genuine practice right you need to be consistent that what you
are doing here so i am using my local variable so restaurant dot filter and now i need to pass
in some filter check right suppose i have my restaurant okay restaurant and how do i want
to filter i want to filter if my restaurant right what is the structure of data over here
what is the structure of data if you see one restaurant it has restaurant dot data dot name
right restaurant dot data dot name if my restaurant dot data dot name
what will i do if my name includes my search text does that make sense right cool if that
makes sense right cool in the comment if my restaurant dot data dot name includes my search text
just filter out all the restaurant right and then return it and then return it i have written
i i have written a lot of i have written a lot of code in one line okay you can maybe write
it in a better way okay so maybe you can do it like this filter data is equals to and then return
your data right return filter data right and this is the filter algorithm what happened oh i wrote it
inside sorry my bad my bad my bad my bad yep so basically what i am doing is restaurant data
dot filter is restaurant dot data dot name if it includes search text so what it will do is
it will go to the restaurant one by one suppose the restaurant name is what is the name of restaurant
uncle g restaurant okay suppose if the name is uncle g restaurant uncle g restaurant so it will
find if my and the search text is j i right if my search text is j i okay my search text
is j i so it will find my j i inside my uncle it will find that okay uncle uncle dot data dot
name includes search text okay this is normal javascript don't want to explain it a lot right
so go read out right you will so now you will get a filter data over here right so let us just
save and see if it works do what do you think will it work we have written a lot of code already
let me first get rid of this ugly hello over here right so by default i will have my search bar to be
empty search input box to be empty okay this is empty will it work will it work yes or no
yep let us just see let us just try to find out king right let us just try to find out king
okay i am just experimenting it fingers crossed if it breaks yep it worked right it worked isn't it
right so it just quickly re-rendered what happened now right i'll explain you what happened
when you click on this button it saw what is the current it it went to this what is the current
search text what is the current search text it was king right so it passed king as well as the
list of all the restaurant as well as the list of all the restaurant to my filter data my filter
data then find out in all my list of restaurant does it does the name includes the search text
yes if it includes filter it and my filter data filter data just gave back some data to me over here
now i just set my data to my restaurants and what is happening is this component re-rendered itself
and it re-rendered this whole thing again re-rendered itself and it re-rendered everything
again okay now people are saying that okay let us filter it okay let us just go back empty
search it once again right we will we will if we search it right so it won't work search won't
work here it won't work why why because the state is updated why why the search won't work
because it lost the original state but did you understand till here did you understand till
here we will make that work also did you understand till here if i write my king right if i write my
king if i search over here it worked right if i write kfc right and i search it did not work
it should ideally work right i feel that i have taken a little tough example but i want to basically
build real world features i want to build real world features enjoying it okay nice so basically
okay if i write my king it worked it won't work if you do anything else right so okay
so i think we are already 140 okay let us just wrap this today right and we will this is your
homework to find out why this was not working okay let us just wrap this in the next session
take this thought with you right i i have really covered a lot of things today right take this
thought with you right take it up play with it that is why this session was a little heavy
i wanted to actually teach you this thing and i also wanted to teach you with you know with
the actual real data and i have picked up a very hard example here right i have picked up a hard
example so the homework for you is to first of all you know make that toggle thing remember i did
that search true false true false true false true false right this is what is exciting this is
what is exciting you have to question yourself at every moment and don't worry a lot of people
are saying that i have not understood it properly don't worry just practice whatever i have done
i'll revise everything once again i'll revise everything once again don't worry if you did not
understand but take this curiosity with you ask yourself every question that why things are
working the way they are working why it is not working what will happen if i write
something else over here right suppose if i have my restaurant list can i use my restaurant list over
here can i use my restaurant list over here can i use can i use my restaurant list and some people
would be and you know my main aim is to make this a little frustrating for you as well you
must be thinking your react is so tough but but but in the next class when i will tell you
all this once again you would just love it don't worry don't worry if you did not understand it 100
percent but you have to go do whatever i did today in the class don't worry if you understand it what
is your level of understanding give you a give a marks out of 100 how much percentage would you
have understood this 100 100 100 99 100 100 160 okay 60 is decent right 60 50 okay 75 percent
some people are saying 0 oh my god you need to watch in recordings and do everything what i did
once again you will understand it don't worry we will do it right we will do it but you should
be able to answer me few questions before the next session what is state why do we use state
what is state why do we use state what is a u-state hook why do we use a u-state hook
right and right and what is what is u-state what is a hook at the end of the day
what is u-state at the end of the day just a function so you need to remember
these small things right you should also be restructuring your folder now
what you have to do this is your homework to restructure this folder put it down into components
okay right and then you need to also play with your imports and exports you have to play
with your imports and exports right okay cool and then you need to also read about clear the
basic understandings of javascript if you don't know what is this e why i am writing e.target.value
these questions you have to find out these are javascript questions okay cool and then
those people who will do this can also find out and in the channel in the discord channel
just write down why this did not work what can i do to make this works will you do that
will you take this challenge in the next class when we come will you fix it up i will ask you
we have so many people over here we have to fix this search box
see i don't want to extend my session a lot because it has become very heavy today right
and in the next session join on time we will start at 11 and i will make sure that the
session works i will go and first of all talk to the platform team talk to the an academy team
why the why i always get delay right why is it breaking all this i'll do that right
we will start at 11 right if everything works fingers crossed right we'll start at 11
okay one more thing i wanted to tell you i will also be active on the discord channel
discord community right please join the discord community if you haven't from the pinned comment
i will be active there right i'll try to give the recording as soon as possible right it takes
time you know three hours of hd recording is can you guess how many gb it is
people who want to leave can leave right i am done with the session today
2 gb 10 gb 15 gb 12 gb you know for my screen it comes out around 55 55 gb the last recording
was 55 gb so that is why it takes so much time to render that all then i need to
convert it then i need to compress it a little because i have to convert it takes time then
it uploads then you have to like process it that is why it is 55 gb i am recording it
my screen right it takes it takes some time so please please have some patience i want to
give you everything as soon as possible don't worry okay and then that recording i need to
compress it so that it becomes it does not lose its lose its data like lose its quality
but compress the file right there are options so it takes a lot of time everything right
try to fix this up but make the search bar work if you can if you cannot i will cover everything
i will cover everything i will build the search functionality everything in the next session
okay cool so thank you so much for today's session right and thank you so much for joining
i hope you would have learned a lot about imports export named import when you use a star as when you
use a curly parenthesis when you don't use it when you use a default keyword when you use all
that small things how do you modify your folder right if you have two two components in one
file how do you extract it when do you use a .js when do you use a .js can you use it can you
not use it how do you make state variables how can you give default value what is a hook
what is use state read more about it i will give you all the reference links in the homework
read all those links when you come in the next session you have one full week do that right
please do that read everything right i will revise everything and it will fit into your head
100% okay and i will also be available on discord community right next week i will start taking
out time i was not getting much time to be active on discord but i will be there don't worry i know
a lot of people say that okay akshay you are not answering our doubts i am not running anywhere
yeah i am not running anywhere i will answer your doubts but sometimes you just google things up
i know a lot of people are asking questions around their basic understanding of javascript is not
correct and they are asking questions i will answer javascript question also no issues
this is namaste react i will answer javascript question also i will try to answer as much as you
can don't worry you you must be doing your job you must be studying in colleges for me this is
only what i'm doing this is my job now this is my profession this is my profession that is why
i have chose to do this right don't worry i am not running anywhere right i will come up i will come
to and you know i will try to hire tas also if i am not able to answer i will hire tas it does not
take much time it does not take much time but i want you all to also participate see if i will
ask if i what i'll tell you what will happen if i'll hire ta i have done this right i have
seen other educators also when they hire teaching assistants when they hire teaching assistants
so you know people realize that okay when somebody's asking doubt i don't have to reply why ta should do
ta ta's job is to answer their questions right ta should help them right why would i why would i
go and help anybody in the community and the community won't survive if the community
participant don't encourage indulge with each other if you are not learning from each other
then the community won't survive i want you to be good developers you know when you work in a company
you work with fellow developers you should be so good that if you see somebody else's error right
you should exactly know your node version is wrong you should know you should exactly know
that your node version is wrong i got into that issue your node version is wrong see when you
get that confidence as a developer right when you get that you have to be a ta everybody is a ta in
my team everybody over here is a ta sometimes what will happen is some other people will get some
doubts right so and you know because they have stuck they they tried something new right
they tried something new that is why they are getting that doubt okay so if you avoid that
if you will avoid that then it will be tough for you and you know teaching assistant who
does not know ta it is a teaching assistant that means somebody will be there to answer your
doubts that's all and and you know eventually when we go ahead right if i will feel need i
will hire tears i will hire tears no issues you know i have so many people out there i i you
know i will just go ahead and write down that okay can you help me with react there are so many people
from industry they can come up right no issues i'll hire ta they won't even take they won't
even take money from me right and i don't have issues with money don't worry yep and people
okay yep one thing what we can do is suppose if you want to be a ta then you know i'll ask some
i'll ask the moderator or someone to like i mean roll out a form you can fill it we will see we'll
just give it but i want everybody everybody to be a ta over here okay cool and i will anyways be
there there would be so many questions that ta is might not able to answer i will help them
don't worry i'm not going anywhere i will be there this is my job i have come here to teach react
i won't go unless you learn react cool so i don't want to give this a lot of
gyan to you now otherwise people will start saying ki akshay just gives gyan and all that right
no issues let me get a little free i will just come back you will see me so much active on
discord i will be there what else i do i'll do that cool okay so i will share the code of this
right away i am pushing the code on bid bucket right people who don't have access to bid bucket i'll
put that once again in your you know on discord right in discord i have already posted the
bid bucket link people who haven't joined discord discord join this link right now join this
discord community right now either because you know i will i will close this link right after
the session you won't be able to join it after the session okay over here if you go on to this
announcement channel here this is the github repository this is not github repository
this is bid bucket repository but yes this is git repository okay here it is right
i am posting it once again now don't ask me again okay and when you have your hd recordings
and assignment ready i we will post it on the announcement channel keep watching this announcement
channel i am posting this bid bucket code repo don't ask me okay and i'm marking everyone
as well you will get a notification i am posting it right here is the link of the repo i am
pushing the code right away okay i am pushing the code in front of you okay react live what was the
here is react live see you can see this bid bucket is exactly like github right
so if you go to commit i have committed chapter one session two session three chapter four
today is chapter five right so let us just go over here okay let me commit everything
i have committed everything pushed right the code will be here right okay i was not planning
to give you the code also but i am giving you code right take the code but don't copy it you know
the major mistake people do is they will just see my commit now and they will just try to copy
paste whatever i did don't copy it write all code yourself write all code yourself okay
okay some people are saying that i don't know how did you push it i am using an extension over
here there is something known as git lens this extension use this git lens it will give you
integrated vs code okay right and you know i will i will try to get in tas also don't worry i i know
that some people are still asking for tas but when i get tas don't don't just stop engaging in the
community because i have seen that you know big communities don't survive because when the tas
come in nobody interacts with each other they just don't do okay okay so people are saying no
ta no ta okay don't yeah so let's let's see right let's grow it up right no issues if i'll feel
i'll get the ta okay don't shoot and thank you so much everyone right i want to take out name you know i
want to say thank you to a lot of people they are so like they just go and help each other see
i when i went to doubts forum right almost every post has like four comments seven comments
24 comments people are coming up to help each other this is what is the power of this
community right this is what the power of community and i feel that you will be great in react if you
know answer to each and every question which is being posted in this doubts doubt forum
i want you all to be this this great this amazing that you should know answer to each
of these doubts forum questions right every one of you should know all of these answer
don't think that i have not faced this doubt that does not mean that like i don't want to know it right
i really love the community thank you so much everybody who has like who has come here to help
see now this cat dot gta right see somebody has written a question they are replying it right
cool so thank you so much everyone right i just don't want to take much of your time
right and we will be active here if you have doubts right if you have doubts just please post
it in the community right we will take up it take it up right if we will need if we will need
i will take up extra sessions also to clear your doubt happy now i'll take up extra session
to clear your doubt i'll take up extra session all of the most important questions
which i will get in my doubts forum right all of the most important questions that i will get in
the doubts i feel that everybody should know about their questions i'll try to make a doc or
something where i will put down all those questions or i'll come take extra sessions to do that
happy don't worry okay i mean a lot of time has been taken it was a knowledge heavy session
so please from the next session finish your homework finish your assignment i want everybody's
assignment to be here everybody's assignment to be here see people make such beautiful apps people
have made beautiful apps see why are you not making it everybody is doing it please do that
please do that okay chalo bye bye okay oh i have stopped sharing the screen sorry
go to the discord channel and go to the assignment section you will got to know okay okay cool chalo
bye bye bye see you see you in the next session
