FILE: 09. Finding the Path.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Yup, so I have started the recording.
Let us just open the file in my VS code.
Here it is, right?
And just give me a moment.
Let me pull things up, right?
So here is my VS code, okay?
And we have our app.js over here, right?
So, is my screen visible and audible?
Audible, visible, I am just taking a poll, okay?
So I am taking a poll.
If I am visible and audible, just tell me.
Am I visible and audible? True or false?
Am I visible and audible properly?
Visible and audible properly?
Yup.
I am working on fixing a lot of tech things, right?
I am working with the tech team.
I want the experience to be smooth for all of you, right?
So don't worry about it.
It will just be better each day.
Don't worry about it, okay?
So awesome, cool.
So some people are saying that, okay,
what was the course plugin which I had, right?
The course plugin was course Chrome, right?
If you write course Chrome on Google,
you will find this plugin, okay?
So allow course.
This is the Chrome plugin that I used last time, right?
It is over here.
So install it.
You won't get the error.
Lot of people were getting that error.
Awesome, awesome, right?
So, cool.
So let us just start today's session, okay?
Let us just start today's session.
So in, but before that, before moving on to that,
in the last class, we studied about an important hook, okay?
We are starting the class now, okay?
Please pay attention.
So we starting the class now, okay?
So in the last class, we studied about use effect hook, right?
So can you quickly tell me
what was the use of use effect hook?
What was the use of use effect hook?
Quickly, yep, call API.
Is it calling API?
Calling API is just something which I did inside use effect.
But basically, use effect is a hook, right?
Which React gives us, right?
Which is called after the component is rendered?
Listen to me carefully.
Use effect is called after your component is rendered.
It all, what is the, what is the two parameters it takes?
What are the two things we have to pass inside use effect?
Yes.
First thing is the callback function.
The second one is your dependency array, okay?
So let me show it to you.
We had this, right?
Let me get rid of these comments first of all, okay?
These comments are distracting.
Let me get rid of these comments, okay?
So what we did?
It takes a callback function, right?
And it takes a dependency array with this, right?
So when is this callback function called?
When is this callback function called?
After your render.
Yup, everybody is correct over here.
Thank you so much for answering it, right?
So when you have an empty array,
that means it will be called how many times?
If you have an empty array, only once.
Only once after the initial render, okay?
The use effect callback function will be called
only once after initial render.
If I have a variable, a state variable over here,
now this is the dependency array.
That means this is dependent on search text.
Whenever my search text changes, right?
Whenever my search text changes, the component re-renders
and now my callback function is called after the render,
right?
What is the sequence?
First of all, the component will render,
use effect will be called
and then if anything changed, then it will re-render again,
right?
So how this data flowed into our app was
first of all, we made an initial render, right?
First of all, we made an initial render, right?
And let's remove this console log.
First of all, we made this initial render
and what happens after that is use effect is called
and we set our restore from here, right?
Once we have our restore data set in all restore,
the component re-renders and fills the data
into the component, cool?
Makes sense, awesome, awesome, right?
So one more thing I wanted to ask, okay?
So we know that, okay, search text, right?
Search text, if the search text is added
as the dependency, so whenever the search text
like is changed, so our component re-renders
and use effect is called, this makes sense.
What if I have an empty array, then it is called
once and only once at initial render?
What if we don't have this array?
What if we don't have this array?
Will this work?
Is it correct or not?
Tell me, is this correct or not?
Or will this complain?
No, no, no, it is not correct.
Yes, it will work, no, it is not correct, not correct.
Okay, let me tell you what happens
if we don't have a dependency array.
If we don't have a dependency array,
that means our use effect is not dependent on anything.
It is not dependent on anything
and use effect's default behavior
is to be called after render.
So every time my component renders,
my use effect will be called.
What did I say?
It will be called after each render, after each render.
Okay, does that make sense?
Chalo, let me show you an example also, okay?
Let me show you example also.
So first of all, in our app, let me start my app.
Let me start my app by npm start
and we have our app running on localhost1234.
Awesome, we have our data.
Oh my God.
Oh, is there a restaurant with Nadim, namaste?
Nice, nice, nice, awesome.
So let us just go.
Okay, so I'll show you the demo, right?
How do we write use effect?
Don't worry about it.
So we have our head, we have our body and we have our footer.
Let me just remove these two for now, right?
Let's just play with head, right?
We have just header.
In header, right?
If I write a console log of render, right?
If I am writing the console log of render, right?
Now I am creating one more use effect, right?
I am creating one more use effect, right?
Use effect takes a callback function
and it also takes a dependency array, right?
So what will happen is now let me just
listen to me very carefully, right?
We have our use effect here, right?
So in what order will it be print?
What will print first?
Render or use effect?
What will print first?
Render or use effect?
Exactly.
We have our render first and then our use effect.
Let me make it a little zoom, okay?
So we have our render first, then we have our use effect.
Now let me tell you one interesting thing,
one interesting thing, okay?
Now, if I click on my login, right?
If I click on this login, so my state changes.
So will the use effect be called?
Will the use effect will be called?
No, right?
Or yes?
Yes or no?
A lot of people are saying no, some people are saying yes.
So if I change my state, see, render is getting called,
but use effect isn't getting called, see?
Whenever I change my state.
Why?
Because our dependency array is empty, right?
Dependency array is empty, right?
Now, suppose if we don't have the dependency array,
now there is no dependency in our app,
no dependency.
How will this be called?
How many times will this be called?
It will be called after every render, see?
After every time my state changes,
see, this use effect will be called, okay?
So note down in your notebooks, right?
Take down your notes that if we don't pass anything,
use effect will be called after every render.
If we pass an empty array,
that means there is no dependency.
It will only be called once after initial render.
And suppose if I put is logged in here, right?
It will be called every once, right?
It will be called after initial render once
and it will be called every time my is logged in changes.
Make sense?
Okay, write cool in the comments if that makes sense, right?
Let's move to the next topic.
This is what I wanted to tell you.
The first thing today, okay?
Where is my body in, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Let me just get back to my code, app.js.
Where is my app.js?
Here it is.
Let me get back my body and not my body,
I mean app's body as well as header in over here.
Okay, and we have our data coming in.
Okay, so let me just also see this, right?
One more cool thing I wanted to tell you.
One more cool thing, right?
Some cool developers, some cool developers, right?
What they do is they try to, what is this?
What is app layout?
What is app layout?
App layout is a functional component, okay?
It's a function.
Now I'm telling you one important thing.
React says that, React's documentation says that
never create a component inside a component.
Some cool developers try to do that.
I want to create a food component inside my component.
Never do that, never do that.
Write it down, okay?
Write it down.
React says that don't do that,
keep it on the top level, right?
You can compose the component if you want to,
but never create a component inside component
because otherwise rendering, see,
suppose if your app is being rendered,
your component will be created how many times?
Tell me, tell me Preeti,
Preeti asking for a reason, right?
Does that make sense?
Does that make sense to not call it inside?
You know a lot of people call it, right?
A lot of people call it inside, right?
But because they don't know how rendering process works,
how reconciliation works,
it does not, like, it will call food,
like how many times this food will be created?
No need, never create a component like that, okay?
Now, let me tell you few more important things, right?
About hooks, which I wanted to tell you.
Don't keep noting this down in your notebook, okay?
These are important points.
So, we have our use state, right?
We have our use state.
So, never ever write a use state inside a if-else.
Never ever write a use state inside if-else.
Never do this, okay?
You don't have to do this, okay?
You don't have to do this.
See, when I said that you cannot create a component
inside a component, that does not mean you cannot,
see, you can do like this.
You can nest these components.
Footer is inside app layout.
Don't create it inside this body.
Don't create it, okay?
This is what I was trying to say.
What I'm trying to say in use state is,
never write a use state inside a if-condition, okay?
Don't do that.
React, you know, use state have its own variable, right?
Roo state creates its own local variable
and react does not like inconsistencies.
What will happen in this is,
react won't exactly know whether search text
will be there or not.
React won't know whether search text
will ever be there or not, right?
So, that's not a optimized way.
React's like what you'll say, concrete things, okay?
You should exactly know what your component is doing, right?
You should exactly know
what variables react has to track.
You should exactly know.
So, never do that
and you will never get a case to do that also, right?
You will hardly, you will not get a case
where you might do that.
I'm just telling you because it is important,
never ever write create a variable inside if else.
This is not a good thing
because it leads to inconsistency, right?
So, don't do that.
Also, never write it inside a for loop.
Never write it inside a for loop.
Why?
Never write it inside a for loop, okay?
Why are a lot of people saying
video is lagging, video is logging, audio is lagging?
Is it working fine for you?
Okay, let me take a poll.
Is the audio and video clear?
Is the audio and video clear for you all?
Submit your answers.
Is the audio and video clear for you all?
Okay, okay.
Cool.
So, people who are facing some issues, right?
Take a screenshot, send it to support.
We will check out, check out, right?
But before that, just refresh your page, okay?
Don't worry.
A lot of people, it is working for a lot of people.
There are few people, right?
Seven, eight percent people whom it is not working.
We'll see.
Don't worry.
Okay.
So, let me check my internet ones.
My internet is working fine.
Check your internet ones, right?
My internet is fine, I guess.
Yep.
Cool.
Let's get back.
Like, refresh the page if it is not, right?
If it is, you are facing some issues.
Cool.
So, never write it inside for loop.
You know, react doesn't like inconsistencies.
It should exactly know how many search texts will be there.
It is not a good way, right?
You can't create a lot of search text.
Suppose if I wrote I is equals to zero
and I is less than equal to 10.
So, will it create 10 search texts?
It does not make sense.
And never do that.
Okay?
So, these are few things which I wanted to tell you, right?
And use state.
See, use state is a hook which react gives you
to create local state variable inside your functional components.
Let me tell you once again.
Use state is a hook that react gives you
to create local state variable inside your functional component.
Repeating it once again.
You know, react gives you use state
so that you can create local state variable
inside your functional component.
So, never use use state outside of functional component, right?
Never use use state outside your functional component, right?
You don't do this, right?
Don't create it outside because it won't make sense.
It won't make sense.
React's documentation says that you don't have to do this.
And you will never have to do this.
Why do you want to do this, right?
Shalini says, I did that mistake.
I know that is why I am telling you.
That is why I am telling you.
Lot of people make this mistake.
Okay?
So, don't do that.
There is no need for it.
Always create your state variables
inside your functional components.
Cool.
So, what all things I told, right?
I told about use effect without a dependency area, right?
And use state should not be called inside if else.
Use state should not be called inside for loop.
And use state should not be called inside outside
of functional component.
Three things.
Cool.
Awesome.
Okay, okay, okay.
So, let's move to next portion of the things, right?
A lot of people had that doubt in the Discord community.
Can I use more than one use effect?
Can I use more than one use effect?
Can I use?
Yes or no?
What do you think?
Yes or no?
Yes.
You can create a lot of use effects,
but how much ever you want to.
See, what if I want to do something
after just first initial render?
I will create this use effect, right?
I can create a use effect which is just dependent
on my search text.
I can create it.
You can create several use effects according
to their use cases.
It is completely fine to create more than one use effect.
Okay, cool.
Let's move on to another topic, right?
Somebody, right?
Someone also said, someone also said, right, yesterday,
how do I import my images?
See, this image is coming from,
where is this image coming from?
Where is this image coming from?
This image is coming from CDN.
What if you want to keep your images locally?
How would you do that?
How would you do that if you want to keep your images locally?
Yeah, so let me tell you how we, how you would do that.
So in the SRC folder, just like we have components,
a good way, you know, see, it is not a,
it is not a hardcore rule, but you can create a variable
or a folder asset, right?
Or assets, right?
Whatever you may want to call this as.
I have seen that happening.
Whatever you want to name that as, just do assets.
And in that, you can keep your image images, right?
You can put your images here.
You can in fact create a folder of IMG, right?
Or something, do that.
Okay, now how would you use this image in your system?
How would you use that?
How would we import it, right?
Let's, let's, let's check it once, okay?
So let me just food, food willa logo, okay?
So let us just change the logo, okay?
Which one should I use?
Let us use this, okay?
Let me just save image as food willa dot whatever, right?
What happened?
Keep.
Okay, so my image got downloaded, okay?
Let me just pull that image to my folder.
Let me just quickly do that, okay?
Where is my downloads, right?
Food willa dot PNG.
And I am just pulling it down where?
In my assets, okay?
And I am just pulling it down where?
In my assets IMG, okay?
I have got my food willa dot IMG.
I have just dragged it and put it inside my assets slash image.
How do I import it now?
I'll go to my header dot JS.
I'll go to my header dot JS.
And I will write import.
Just like a normal component, you can import.
Import my logo from dot dot slash.
What should I write here?
Assets slash IMG slash food
VILLA willa dot PNG.
Makes sense.
Instead of my SRC, I can just write this.
So it should work.
Let us just see if it is working or not.
Fingers crossed, refresh the page.
It is working.
Looks cool.
Looks cool.
Yup.
So we have our food willa logo here.
So if you want to use this image, you can use it like this,
or now this is coming from our assets, or, or, or.
Yes, you can use SVG, you can use any type of image,
whatever is present, right?
Or you can just load it via CDN.
But generally, you know what happens
when you are building an app, when you are building an app.
So CDN images, see, in Swiggy, see,
Swiggy also uses a CDN to store image.
Why?
Read about, this is your homework.
Why is CDN a great place to host your images?
Okay, because CDN is faster.
CDN caches your image.
CDN returns it very fast.
It has 100% uptime, right?
It optimizes things, right?
So many, so many reasons why we use from CDN.
Even Swiggy uses CDN, right?
If you go and open image in new tab,
this is a CDN URL.
If you will see, this is a cloudinary,
is a cloud CDN URL.
Okay, people who don't know about CDN, read about it.
Awesome.
Let's move to the next topic now.
Okay.
Let's move to the next topic.
Cool.
So in CDN, we cannot optimize our images
after it comes to our browser, right?
We cannot do that.
So we put in optimized images on CDN, okay?
So the images are already optimized
when they put into CDN, okay?
Cool.
So try it out, other combinations of it, right?
Let's move back to our app, right?
So one more thing which I saw was,
did you implement the Shimmer UI?
Did you implement anybody?
Did anyone implement it Shimmer UI?
Yes or no?
A lot of people are saying, yes, they implemented it.
How did you implement it?
How did you implement it?
How did you implement it?
Quickly, yep.
A lot of people are saying using React Shimmer,
using a NPM package.
Come on people, come on, come on, come on.
You use the package for Shimmer,
NPM Shimmer package, React Shimmer.
Don't use this.
Why do you need to use this?
It is such an easy task to create a Shimmer.
Why are you using an extra package for it?
You can create it on your own.
It is such an easy task.
I don't know.
This is a very bad thing that for everything,
we should not import a new package.
Be conscious about what packages are you importing.
If it is actually needed, then only do,
otherwise you create your own Shimmer, right?
Does it take a lot of effort to create a Shimmer?
It does not take a lot of effort to create a Shimmer.
So never use extra packages.
You know, if you try to use extra packages,
then there are thousands of packages.
Let me show you one cool package, okay?
There is one NPM package, which is known as Izod.
Izod.
This Izod package just find out
whether the number is odd or not.
Do you want to use a,
do you want to import a function from a package?
Do you want to do that?
Don't do that.
People have created, I don't know,
because JavaScript and everything is so,
JavaScript is a very,
it's very communicative, right?
Somebody creates some random package and then they put in
and then people start importing and start using it.
And my God, see, 4,24,000 people download it every week.
They can't write a if-else logic for finding odd.
They import a package.
Don't do this kind of stuff.
Create your own Shimmer, okay?
So it is very, I am seeing people doing that,
that is why.
Don't do that, right?
It's just the if-else condition.
Don't be so lazy.
Let me, okay, let's just quickly create a Shimmer, okay?
I'll show you how much time will it take
to create a Shimmer.
Let's try to create a Shimmer, okay?
Here we had the Shimmer.
If we load the page, do we see Shimmer?
No restaurant matching your filter, okay?
Let me remove this check for now, okay?
I want to see the Shimmer.
Yup, Shimmer UI loading.
So let us create a Shimmer.
How will you create a Shimmer?
Let's go to the Shimmer page, okay?
What is actually Shimmer?
What is actually Shimmer?
These are basically dummy restaurant card, isn't it?
Dummy restaurant card, isn't it?
Some boxes, dummy layout, right?
So what we have to do is we have to create
a similar kind of a view.
Where is our body.js?
We have to create a similar kind of a view, isn't it?
We have to create this restaurant list
with dummy cards, right?
So let us just try to create a
restaurant list with dummy cards, okay?
We have a slash div, right?
In that, I need a lot of cards, right?
What is a card?
What is a dummy card?
Let's give it a class name.
Shimmer card, okay?
Shimmer card.
Cool, we have this Shimmer card.
Let's go back to CSS, okay?
Let me give some CSS to my Shimmer card, okay?
What CSS should I give?
What CSS should I give?
Like, let me give a normal random CSS, right?
Let me give a width height, right?
Width of, what was the width of my card?
Okay, it was 200 px, right?
Let's give it 200 px width
and let's give it height of 200 px.
Let's give it some gray color, right?
Let's make it gray color.
Background is gray, light gray or something.
Let's make it light gray.
And what else?
Should we give it margin?
Let's give it margin of 20 px or something, okay?
Okay, we have our Shimmer.
Let me go back and see.
I got my one box.
I got one box, okay?
Now, how many boxes I need?
How many boxes I need?
Let us create 10, 20 boxes, okay?
Let's create 10 boxes.
How will you create 10 boxes?
How will you create 10 boxes?
It is so easy.
I'll tell you, right?
Array of,
array of let's create 10 boxes.
Dot fill, right?
Just fill it with random data, right?
Empty string or something.
This is how you can create a quick array, right?
Of 10 and then just do a map over it, right?
Map and then you can just do it.
Is this making sense?
Is this making sense to you?
Yes or no, right?
See, did it take a lot of time?
How much time did it take to create a Shimmer?
Don't need to use what I'm trying to say.
You don't have to use a NPM package
for every small thing you do, okay?
This is what I wanted to show you, okay?
You don't have to use a NPM package for everything.
The more code you will write,
the better you will become, okay?
Cool.
So we have created a Shimmer.
Why is it complaining?
Now you know, right?
Why is it complaining?
You know why is it complaining?
Yup, key.
So ideally it should have a unique key.
For now let me just use a index.
Right now I don't have a very optimized key for it, right?
Let me just use a index, right?
Index,
index, sorry, key.
Key is equals to index.
Cool.
If I go, cool, right?
This is a Shimmer.
What else is a Shimmer?
You can make it a fancy UI, right?
Like you see, but it is still better, okay?
Cool.
Let me just go back to my app.js, right?
So what I am trying to say is,
see, when you are building an app,
always be conscious about what packages are you importing?
You don't have to import packages for every small thing, okay?
When should you import a big package?
When should you import a big package?
I'll tell you when.
When the things get complex.
I'll tell you my example and my learnings
from the past work that I have done.
In all the companies that I have worked previously, right?
They were mostly into finance, right?
They were mostly into finance.
And when you see financial applications, right?
There are a lot of forms.
You must have, I mean, tell you,
you must have already used a website
where there are a lot of forms, isn't it?
It's there, right?
A lot of forms are there, right?
Big forms, lengthy forms.
There are like 10, 20 input boxes,
five, six select boxes,
and then random big forms, right?
When you have to build that kind of forms
and each and every component
or each and every input box has their own rejects check, right?
Rejects check.
Each and every, suppose you are entering pan number,
so pan number should have a specific pattern.
If you are entering mobile number,
so mobile number has a different checks, right?
There should be error fields, validations.
So many things are there, right?
In a lot of, so instead of building
all the components on your own,
you can use a package, NPM package, right?
A library, something known as Swarmic.
You know, when you have to do TDS work,
then you can use NPM packages, right?
You don't have to see
when do you use package?
Suppose I don't want to create my own Babel, right?
So I will obviously pull in Babel from NPM, okay?
But for every small thing, don't install.
So use, use, you know, this is a very good.
I am telling you, if you are ever working in your company
and you need some forms, use Swarmic.
Swarmic is not sponsoring this video, sorry.
But I am just telling you,
Swarmic is a really great library.
I have compared a lot of Swarmic.
I have compared it with a lot of libraries.
Swarmic is an open source library, use it up, right?
And it names also suggest, see,
build forms and react without the tiers.
Cool, right?
I like it's, I like it's, you are logo, right?
This slogan, whatever it is called, right?
Build forms and react without the tiers.
Okay, so this is really nice
and a lot of big companies already use it, right?
So, and it has a lot of functionalities.
So if you are building form, you can use it, right?
It gives you very easy way to handle validations
and all that stuff.
I'm not going to dive deep into Swarmic or something.
I just told you because it just came into my head right now.
Okay, so I just told it.
Anyways, so now what I'm trying to say
for every small thing, don't have a package or library.
Do it if it is really required.
Because now we are going to install our new package,
a new library into our project,
which is the lesson of today, right?
The chapter of today is the chapter.
Yes, obviously, you have to import Redux, Router.
You don't have to import Tailwind, right?
You have to import it, those are packages.
But today we are going to install a package, a library
and the name of this chapter was Finding the Path.
So we will be finding the path
of different pages of our app.
Okay, so we will be working.
Thank you for the cool name.
Okay, so, you know, so we will be routing today, right?
We will be creating a lot of routes.
So we created this menu, right?
Home, About Us, Contact, Cart.
So let us try to make different pages for it.
Let us try to make different pages for it, okay?
This is what we will create.
For that, we will use a NPM package, a library
which is known as, it's a very popular library.
It is one of the standard library now, right?
Everybody uses, almost every project which we have seen, right?
Every project that we have seen, use it.
Like I have seen in my career,
almost uses React Router, okay?
So this React Router has come up with its new version.
I will be working on version six, the latest one.
The latest one.
If you are on version five,
then some things might not work.
Version six has come up with a new style of writing it.
React Router has made some significant changes
in recent past, right?
So the way of writing code is slightly different
in your version.
I would recommend you all to use the latest version,
like I am using.
Cool.
Let us just install our routing library with us, okay?
So let's go back.
How do you install a package into our project?
First of all, let me get rid of this console log.
Where is this coming from here, okay?
So how do you install a package?
How do you install a package, okay?
Let's get back to our terminal, close this, right?
NPM install, NPM install,
or you can just write NPMI, okay?
And then write React Router DOM, cool.
NPMI React Router DOM,
or you can do NPM install.
It's one and the same thing, make sense?
If I do NPMI React Router DOM, what will happen?
It installed 73 packages or something, I don't know.
Nice, 207 packages in two seconds.
I don't know what, right?
So we have got this into our package.json, right?
We got this React Router DOM in our package.json, okay?
We have got this into our package.json, cool.
So we did that, now, now, let us just,
let us just start using it.
Are you ready to use it?
Cool, let's just start using it.
Now, first of all, let me tell you the features
that we are going to build today, okay?
Oh my God, okay.
I need to start my app again.
I close the live server, coming back.
So what we are going to build right now is that, right?
Is that I will make the about us page,
I'll make the contact page, okay?
And then we will see how routing works, cool.
So let us create a about us component, okay?
Let's create about us component.
How do you create a component about.js, okay?
I prefer to write all of my components.
It is always a good habit to write a component.
You can do something like this, okay?
Some cool developers do something like this, R-A-F-C-E,
and you get a component already working for you, right?
You just spawn a new component.
But, but, but, don't do that.
I don't like to do that.
The more you write yourself, the more you write yourself,
the better it is, okay?
So always write your components from scratch.
Make a habit you will never fall into trouble, okay?
Rout, cool.
So we'll do a export default of about, okay?
Okay, and then we will return a JSX from it, right?
Let's have a JSX, div, and then we have a H1 here,
and then let's call it as about us page, right?
And then let us have some p tag here, and let's call it,
this is the Namaste React live course class.
Chapter 07, finding the path, cool.
Let us see it, make it work, okay?
Let us just make this work, okay?
So let's go back to app, right?
Let's go back to app.
Now I want to create a route where I write slash about,
and it should take me to the about page.
How will I do that?
How will I do that, right?
So for that, I will have to create a routing configuration,
okay?
You will have to create a routing configuration.
Some people are saying repeat.
We have not done anything, what should I repeat?
I just created a new component about us.
Is there a problem, Meghana, with this?
I did not do anything, what should I repeat?
Come on, I just created a new component about us.
Now I will do, now I will create a routing, okay?
Let me create a routing.
How will I create a routing?
First of all, I'll have to create a configuration
for a router.
Now listen to me carefully,
otherwise you will say repeat again, okay?
So we will import something from the latest package
that we import, and we will create browser router.
Note down in your notebook, create browser router.
This is a function that we get from react router.
It will help us create routing, okay?
Let us get back, right?
How do I create my routing now?
We will create something known as app router, okay?
App router is equals to create browser router.
Listen to me very carefully now.
When we use this function, creates browser router,
we are creating a router, right?
It takes in some configuration.
What is this configuration?
This is the place where I will define
what will happen if I load my slash path, got it?
This is the place I will tell
that if there is a slash about in my page,
then load the about us component.
This is the place we will do, okay?
Now I'll create routing configuration, okay?
We will create routing configuration.
Some people are saying that, okay,
why are you not using different type of routers?
There are multiple routers that we can use.
They have their own ways of creating route.
Go to the documentation.
I will give you the link of this documentation
in the assignment.
Read about all the routers, okay?
We are using right now something known as
create browser router.
This is the recommended router
for all react router web projects.
I am using the most recommended version of router, okay?
So use this, right?
I would recommend you to use the same, okay?
There are multiple routers as well.
Go explore it after this class, okay?
I am using create browser router.
How do you create this configuration?
Now I will tell my component what should happen
if I use, right?
If I use different path, how will I define that?
Suppose if my path is slash, what should I load?
What component should I load on slash?
What component should I load on slash?
What component?
Home is not a component.
Component, component, component.
Yup, Irshad is 100% right, Rahul is right.
It is app layout, right?
Let us load app layout when we have slash, okay?
Right, makes sense?
So we have our, so in this, right?
Here we write something known as element
and in this element we pass what we have to load.
So if we have to load app layout, right?
App layout, we will write like this, right?
And because this is a constant, just give me a moment.
I'll tell you how do we do that, right?
So always, you know, always create this below app layout.
If you will create this above app layout,
what will happen?
Will this work?
You know, I am creating like this
because you know, a lot of you people would be,
will this work?
Yes or no?
Yes or no?
It won't work because app layout, it runs in a sequence, right?
So we need to have app layout defined
before I am creating my router.
So always created below this, right?
So we have our app layout which will be there on slash, okay?
So app layout will be loaded on slash.
Now, what will happen?
What should I write over here
if I have to load something on about?
What should I have?
What should I have here, right?
My about component, right?
I will load my about component in it, right?
How do I load my about component?
Let us import my about component.
Import about component.
I have got this about.
Now let me have my about if I run slash about.
Will this work?
Will this work?
Yes or no, what do you think?
Yes, yes, no, no, yes, yes, no, no, yeah.
So it won't work.
Why it won't work?
Because we need to provide,
we have just created this configuration app router.
We need to provide this app router to our app.
We need to provide this app router to our app, okay?
How do we provide this?
You know, how do we provide this?
There is something known as, there is a component.
This is a component which is exported
from React Router DOM.
It is known as router provider, okay?
Note it down in your notebook.
There is a component router provided
which is coming from our React Router DOM, okay?
So this router provider is a component.
Now, here in root dot render,
we were rendering app layout, right?
We were rendering app layout.
But do we always have to render app layout?
No, right?
We want to render according to our path.
We want to render according to our path, okay?
So what we will do instead of app layout,
I will say that render my router provider, right?
This router provider,
and I will give in some configuration.
Which configuration?
What, which configuration?
I will give in some configuration.
This configuration will be router.
I will provide my router to this.
App router, okay?
Cool.
Now what will happen?
Now what will happen, right?
Now what will happen?
Yes, I will, I will repeat it once again.
Don't worry.
What will happen?
Whatever it, whatever the root will render,
it will render according to this configuration.
Does that make sense?
Does that make sense?
Some people, some people it makes sense, right?
Okay.
Let me tell everything once again, okay?
Let me tell you everything once again.
But this time I will tell you very fast, okay?
So listen to me very carefully.
Don't, don't miss it, right?
I am deleting everything, okay?
I am deleting everything.
I am creating it from scratch, okay?
How was it?
Let me just do command Z.
So we have done this, right?
Where is it?
Where is it?
Where is it?
Where is it?
Just a minute, right?
Cool.
From scratch.
From scratch, listen to me very slowly, okay?
I am going slow, don't worry.
Okay, okay, slow, slow, slow, okay, okay, slow.
Import create browser router, right?
This create browser router will come from the library we have just installed.
First thing, right?
Now I will create this configuration.
This configuration will decide what will happen if I load a certain path, okay?
How do I create my configuration?
I will create a app router, okay?
Basically, you can call this as I am creating a router, okay?
You can also call this as I am creating a router.
How do I create a router by a create browser router?
What will my create browser router takes?
It takes some configuration.
This configuration is an array.
It is a list of paths, list of paths.
How do we define one path?
Each path is an object, right?
And we have a path, right?
Which takes exactly what URL it will take, this URL.
What do I have to load in this URL?
Comes over here like this, element.
And in this element, I will put in a component that I have to load, okay?
So I want to load app layout if the routing is slash.
If my path is slash about, right?
If my path is slash about, it should load my about component.
Let me import my about component.
About component, right?
I imported my about component and let me put in my about component.
Now, how will I configure this?
How will I route this?
Cool.
I will have to pass this router to my render, right?
See, root.render will render whatever you give it to it.
If you give it app layout, it will always render app layout.
I want to render according to this configuration, right?
I want to render according to this router.
So we need to provide this router to my render.
We need to provide this router to my render.
For that we will use router provider, router provider, okay?
This router provider, right?
Comes over here.
Now this router provider takes this config, this router, app router, right?
Router is equals to app router.
Make sense?
Make sense?
Some people are saying, why are you keeping this inside the named import?
Why?
Because this is how somebody would have exported it, right?
Somebody would have exported it.
Don't ask meta, react router DOM is not created by Facebook.
This is not a Facebook library.
This is not developed by Facebook, this is developed by remix, okay?
So it's not developed by Facebook, cool?
So now I need to please repeat router provider, okay?
I'll repeat the router provider.
So this you understood?
App router?
Yes or no?
Yes or no?
Give me a thumbs up over here in the comment, right?
Thumbs up, thumbs up, yes, yes, awesome, awesome, awesome, right?
You undertook creating the router.
Now, you know, whatever you pass in this root dot render, that renders, right?
If I pass in app layout, what will we see?
If I pass in app layout, what do I see over here?
I see my app layout.
What if I pass in about us here?
If I pass my about, what will render?
It rendered our about us page, whatever you will pass in, it will render because I want
to render according to my router.
So I will have to provide my router here, right?
I'll have to provide my router.
How do you provide my router?
Router provider makes sense in my router provider, I will give a router and it will
be the same router that I created, this app router, okay, will come over here, cool?
Now you must be asking, this is looking like something we did last time, right?
What is this known as?
What is this known as?
Yes, Piyush is right, Ram is right, Shreya is right.
This is known as props, props.
How does this router provider component understand these props?
Because somebody else, a developer just like you and me has written this code, written
this component inside React Router DOM, somebody would have written it, remix developer, okay?
So don't have to worry about, it is normal React, normal React, okay?
And somebody would have done a named export there, export there, that is why we are
calling it like this, awesome?
Now you would ask me, where do I find all this information?
How do I know whether it should be a named export or not?
How will you find this?
Suppose if I have to find in, how will I find it?
You have to read the documentation, everything is available in the documentation, awesome,
right?
So we have given this path, we have given this path, now let's go back to our app
and let's go back to our local host, refresh the page, we have this, right?
Now suppose if I go to my slash about, slash about, if I hit enter, see, we rendered our
about us, isn't it?
Is it cool or not, right?
We have our about us with us, we have our about us with us, awesome stuff, right?
But, but, but, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what if I did XYZ here?
What will it load, XYZ here?
What will it load, what will it load, will it break or work, break or work?
It will give us an unhandled thrown error.
But did you observe an amazing thing?
Did you observe an amazing thing?
An amazing thing is that this react router DOM, this is such a powerful library that it
also gives us a better UI for showing us errors, right?
Better UI for showing us these errors.
See nothing break in our console, in our console log we do not see any errors.
It is a great user experience, we are showing a default error page.
React router DOM is doing it for us, we did not write this unhandled thrown error.
This is not our error page, right?
This is not our error page, right?
There should be a error page which we would have developed but we haven't developed any
error page but this is a very user friendly experience that react router DOM gives it
explicitly to us, awesome, right?
It does not give you an ugly error in the console.
It does not make your console red, it does not make your console red.
Now this is a default error page.
What if I have to create my own error page, cool error page, right?
You would have seen that error page, right?
With that oops something went wrong, isn't it?
So how do we create such error page, right?
You have seen that error page, right?
Let us just create our error page, right?
Let's just create our error page.
What is an error page?
How will you create an error page?
Error page, everything in React is what?
Everything in React is what?
A component, so error page is also a component, right?
Let us create our error page, E-R-R-O-R, R-R-R, not J-S, right?
So let's create a error page quickly, E-R-R-O-R is equals to a functional component
that just returns some piece of JSX.
This JSX is our div, right?
And in div we have a H1, and I don't know why people write this,
but we have something known as oops, right?
And then we also give it as something went wrong,
something went wrong.
Okay, let's make it H2 or something
so that it looks a little beautiful.
You can pitch in some images and all that stuff, right?
You can put in some images, cool images, broken images,
but let us just now refresh our page and oh my God,
it is not loading.
Will it load?
Will it load?
How?
We have just created a function.
We did not do anything out of it, right?
Let us just export our function.
You're not telling me that I'm not doing it properly.
Come on, you should tell me, right?
So export default error, export default error.
Now we need to pass this information
to our router config.
We need to pass this error information
in our router config.
Where is our router config in our app.js file here?
Just like we said the path is this,
element is this, if we load this path
and we have what element will be loaded app layout.
Now we can give something like error element, right?
And whatever I give to it, whatever component I give to it
will be loaded in case of error.
Make sense?
Does that make sense to you?
Write cool in the comment if that makes sense.
Write cool in the comment, E-R-R-O-R, right?
From my component slash error.
So if you load this path, this will load.
If there is an error in this path,
it will load the error element.
Will this work?
Yes or no?
Yes or no?
Yup.
So this is the R cool looking,
cool looking, fancy looking, error component,
the error page, right?
Okay, so we have loaded it.
It's not looking cool, I know,
but you can put in some images
and all that fancy stuff that you want to, okay?
Okay, so this is a wild card match.
If you write any random gibberish URL, hit enter,
this will take care of it.
Any random URL that comes will go to our error page, okay?
Let me repeat it very quickly.
What did I see?
We want to create an error page.
So app router says that, okay, on certain path,
whatever you want to load, give it to element.
Whatever you want to load in case of error,
give it to error element.
Awesome, awesome.
Don't worry, Sushmit.
I know you are very eager to know
what happens if I give slash about slash restaurant,
slash akshe slash namaste, we will cover everything.
We will cover about nested route.
Don't worry, please calm down.
I will teach you everything.
Don't worry, okay?
So this is how we have our error component here, right?
Let's get back to the main page.
Got it?
We studied how do we create default path?
We studied how do we create our normal path?
We gave element.
We studied how do we create our error element?
Let me tell you a cool thing.
Let me tell you a cool thing before I take a break.
I will take a break, listen to this very carefully.
Now, suppose we have our error component.
Does this look good?
This error component, if there is a user,
he will not get to know what is this error?
Suppose if he loaded some page,
he will not get to know that what is this error?
We want to show some more information about this error.
We want to show some more information about this error.
How do we show that information?
How do we show that information?
Okay, we will show it information.
Let me just tell you, okay?
So ReactRouterDome gives us one more cool thing, right?
ReactRouter gives us one more cool thing,
that I can import from my ReactRouterDome.
Okay, what is this cool thing?
What is this cool thing?
This cool thing is known as useRouteError.
UseRouteError.
Can you tell me what is this useRouteError?
Can you guess what is this useRouteError?
Absolutely everyone, my friends, this is a hook, right?
This is a hook which ReactRouterDome gives us, right?
This is a hook.
You know how do you identify a hook?
Hook starts with use, okay?
It starts with a use, okay?
So this is a hook and how do I use?
Okay, what is a hook at the end of the day?
What is a hook at the end of the day?
It's a normal function.
How do I use this hook?
I will just use a useRouterError.
It will just give me my error in this.
Let us just see what we get over here, right?
Let us just log this object, right?
We will get something, right?
Console.logerr, okay?
Let us just see on our console what we get.
See, it gives us this error object.
This error object contains a lot of information
about what type of error do we have, right?
It gives you the information about
what are the types of error we have.
It says that it is four not four status
and not found error.
There could be multiple type of errors,
but ReactRouterDome gives us useRouterError
and it is smart enough to catch all the errors.
It won't throw red color errors
in your console, okay?
It won't throw.
ReactRouterDomeOP, right?
It is amazing library.
I just love it.
It is a standard in the industry right now, right?
Learn all these things, right?
This will be helpful for 100% of the projects
that you will make.
Very important lesson today, okay?
Let's go back and we will see now
how do I display my error, right?
So let us display my status and status text, okay?
You can use this piece of information
to show it on your page however you like to, okay?
You can do a, how will you use it?
Err, err.status, right?
You can do a err.status plus something like this.
Four not four not found something like this.
Err.status text, what was the name?
Status text, okay?
Let's do a err.status text.
If I refresh my page, see?
It gives us more information about your error.
We can do a destructuring as well.
We can do destructuring as well, okay?
Let me repeat it once again
for everyone who did not understood.
We, React Router DOM is very powerful, okay?
It is very powerful.
It does not let you throw error in your console, right?
It catches all the routing errors.
If suppose there is a mistake in the route,
it catches those errors.
Now, we can catch this error
and we can use this piece of error
to show it to the user properly.
How do we show it?
It gives us access to a hook
which is known as use route hook.
Use route error hook, sorry, right?
What is hook at the end of the day?
It's just a normal function.
How will we use a hook?
We will just call a function, isn't it?
Very easy.
Now, this hook gives us access to this error.
The error that is there, right?
Now, we can just use this error in our code.
Some people are saying, can we destructure?
Yes, we can destructure it, right?
Why not?
We can just have a status comma status text from error
and we can just use it directly.
Got my point?
Got my point?
We can do it, right?
Try it out in your assignments, right?
Create your own error component,
but for now, I am just leaving it as it is.
We have studied to read errors now.
We are reading errors now.
See, we are not just getting errors out of the box.
We are reading errors and showing it to the users properly.
Great way, right?
Great way, right?
So, wherever we get errors, right?
We should be good with catching those errors
and displayed to users the proper message
that needs to be displayed, right?
Cool.
This was a routing session, right?
Let's take a five-minute break.
We will be back.
I want to teach you amazing things now.
Nested components, nested routing and dynamic routing.
Lot of things are coming up.
Take a five-minute break and let's just come back, okay?
Five-minute timer, drink some water, right?
Drink some water, stay away, go away from your screens, right?
Relax your eyes a little.
We have one more hour to spend together, okay?
Thank you so much.
Yup, so people are asking for Discord link.
Let me give you the Discord link, okay?
Join it right now, okay?
We will be closing this link very soon.
Let me just give it to you.
Invite people, copy link, okay?
Akshay, you are great.
Thank you so much, Monal.
You are also great.
You are a great student, yup.
Everybody is great.
If you are here, you are great.
Thank you so much.
Yup, love you Akshay, who said that?
Bro, Anish, yup, love you, bro.
Love you, Anish.
Join Discord, okay?
So I have pinned this Discord link.
Join it quickly right now, okay?
And we will be closing this link very soon.
We will close this link in half an hour, okay?
I'll close this link in half an hour.
Please do that.
And thank you so much everyone
who is helping other people in this chat.
I just love our forum.
I just love our Discord forum.
See, somebody wrote this question one minute ago
and there are people who are already starting helping it.
See, one minute ago, one minute ago
and people are already helping this guy, see, right?
Faster than the chat GPT, right?
So amazing community, right?
Amazing community.
I have not seen such a community, right?
You know, I just love it.
And you know, we have secretly also gotten some TAs
who are helping you, okay?
So we have secretly pitched in the TAs
who are helping you, right?
So I won't tell you who they are,
but there are people who are helping it
and we are on a mission to make this
a very great React community.
Thank you so much everyone for being there, okay?
No, no, Nopil is not our TA.
Nopil is our, Nopil is our normal student
and he's, thank you so much, Nopil.
Nopil is very helpful, very helpful in the community.
Thank you so much, Nopil.
Let's go back.
Let's not waste time.
Let's quickly consider, you know,
I have a flight to catch at five o'clock.
I need to quickly finish this session and rush, okay?
So let me finish it, cool.
So, cool.
So, yep.
So let us now, we have seen that, okay?
We created a slash about page, right?
It goes to the about us page, right?
Where do I have to go?
Hey, I am going to Bangalore.
I am meeting this tech team over here, right?
Graphy team, we will figure out issues,
all the issues, we will resolve all the issues, okay?
Don't worry, right?
I am, you know, when I'm not taking class,
I'm working, don't worry.
After this class, I'll go.
Tomorrow I will sit with the team,
graphy team, I will fix all these issues
which you get during the class.
This live class, right?
I will be going to their Bangalore office.
I will fix all these issues, yep.
Cool, so I will talk to them, right?
And I will meet the team as well, right?
I will meet the team as well, I need to go.
Okay, cool.
Let's just focus once again, no more random questions.
Suppose if I have to click on this about
and go to about us page, what should I use?
What do I use?
If I click on about it and I go to the about page, right?
Some people are saying on click.
Some people already know the answer.
Wow, why have you come here to learn?
Some people are saying anchor tag, okay.
I'll tell you what, right?
So basically, React Router DOM says us, right?
You know what is the problem with an anchor tag?
I'll tell you what is the problem with an anchor tag.
When you suppose, see, on our logo,
we have our anchor tag, right?
On where is our header?
Where is our head, right?
This header title, right?
So in this title, we have a anchor tag here, right?
What is the problem with anchor tag?
The problem with anchor tag is if you click on this,
right, it refreshes the whole page.
It just refreshes the whole page.
Very bad, right?
Very bad.
We are building a single page application.
With this, I want to introduce you to a great concept,
which is known as, I'll tell you.
We are building a SPA, a single page application.
What is a single page application?
What is a single page application?
I have not covered anything.
Why, what should I repeat?
Let me, let me at least cover something, okay?
So we are, you know, this is a single page application.
React applications are single page applications.
When we say, not all, see, React is a library
which you can use in HTML.
But this is a single page application.
What does it mean by when I say
a single page application?
Earlier, right?
Earlier in older days, how are websites used to work?
Remember our old, old websites,
they used to work with an HTML page, right?
For about, for, if you have to load an about page,
so you have to go to slash about.html, right?
You, it loads the whole page again and again.
Isn't it?
Suppose if you have to go to the contact page,
you have to go slash contact.html,
it loads everything once again.
With single page application,
our application does not reload.
It is not making network call when we are changing pages.
Suppose if I am going from home to about page,
it should not make a network call
and fetch the about us data.
Earlier it used to happen.
Still every, so many websites are built like this.
I don't know Wikipedia has changed itself or not.
Wikipedia is one such website, right?
It was there.
Let us just see, right?
No, I think they have also improved it.
Earlier it used to be like normal pages, right?
Bank website, whatever you see,
it just loads the whole page, right?
Wikipedia is fast, right?
It's very fast.
It is very fast and very great indexing.
I just love Wikipedia as a website, right?
Okay, cool.
So we will be making single page application, right?
So, okay.
With single page application,
one more thing came to my mind, right?
Let me tell you before I forget, okay?
There are two types of routing.
Can you tell me what are the two types of routing?
Can you tell me what are two types of routing?
Right?
Can you tell me what are two types of routing?
Private and protected, no.
File-based, yep.
So there are two types of routing.
One is known as client-side routing.
One is known as server-side routing.
One is known as client-side routing.
Client-side routing.
And one is known as server-side routing, okay?
Note it down in your notebook.
There are two types of routing.
Client-side routing, server-side routing.
What is the difference between two?
Server-side routing is the way
that all our pages come from server, right?
Suppose if you are going to another route,
suppose I am changing my route, right?
Suppose I am going from this to about page.
I am changing my route.
Now this about page will come from my server.
This is server-side routing, okay?
It means in our older times that we do, right?
We used to call slash about.html in it.
Used to make a network call, get the HTML, JavaScript, CSS,
and then loads the whole page.
That is server-side routing, okay?
But in React applications or in our application right now,
we will build client-side routing.
When I say client-side routing,
we will click on this about page.
It will go to the about page
without making any network call
because all our components are already there in our code, right?
We don't have to go to server to fetch about as detail.
It is there in our app already.
That component is sitting over there.
According to that route,
we will just load a different component, right?
Cool.
So we will do client-side routing right now, right?
Let's focus on it, right?
So now if I click on my about us,
we need to create first a single-page application.
So we need to create a single-page application
and we don't want to reload our page.
So one way could be to do something like this, okay?
I can do a ahref is equals to slash about, right?
About, is this a good way?
Is this a good way?
I can do it like this, right?
I can do it like this.
It is, see, about came in.
I don't know, it just messed up the CSS, but anyways.
If I click on my about, see, it reloads the whole page.
It is reloading our whole page.
See, it is just reloading.
If you see it clearly, see, your page will see reloading.
See, it reloads.
Now we have our anchor tag.
So I don't want to reload.
So react router DOM says, okay,
I will help you with not reloading and stuff, right?
So it help, it gives you, this react router DOM gives you
something known as link, okay?
Let me remove this, we are not using it.
Import link from react router DOM.
Does it make sense?
This is a link, right?
This is a link component, which is again a named export
from the react router DOM library
and we will use this link.
How do I use my link is exactly how we use our anchor tag, okay?
Exactly how we use our anchor tag.
We use link instead of href, instead of href, we give it to.
So basically it is like link to slash about, okay?
Link to slash about.
It is exactly, it exactly works like anchor tag.
Simple, right?
Let me repeat it once again.
Suppose if I, if you have to put an anchor tag somewhere
in your react application, you won't use a anchor A.
You won't put that anchor tag.
You will put a link, okay?
You will put a link to all the random pages.
Does that make sense?
Write cool if that makes sense.
Did you understand that?
Write cool, awesome, awesome, awesome, right?
So now let us just see it working, right?
And let us also give this link to our home, right?
Let us give this link to our home, right?
So how will I write for home?
Link to, what will I give inside my H2?
Slash, okay?
And let's go back to our home, okay?
This is our link home.
This is our link about, okay?
If I refresh my page, see.
Now let us just go to about page.
I went to my about page.
It is not reloading it.
It's not reloading it.
And we have our home here, right?
Which does not do anything.
So what are the people writing over here?
When we make a request from other servers,
load, client, route, so user gets back the route
from client side, I don't know.
Just a minute.
See, I don't know what questions are you asking,
but let me tell you once again,
let me repeat it once again, okay?
Client side routing means that, okay?
I'm repeating it very quickly.
Client side routing means that we don't want to
load anything from the server.
When you are going to about a page, right?
It is not making any network call or something.
The component is already there.
It is just putting it up.
It is just putting it up, right?
So, keep inside LI.
Oh, you are saying that we can keep this link inside LI.
Yeah, come on.
You can do whatever you wish to, okay?
You can do whatever you wish to.
It is just like an anchor tag.
Do you put an anchor tag here
or you put an anchor tag outside?
It will work like an anchor tag, right?
You can put this like this as well, right?
You can do it like this, okay?
It exactly works like an anchor tag.
I'll tell you, so no need to worry.
You can play with it in your system, okay?
You can do this also.
It is one and the same thing.
It is one and the same thing.
Does that make sense?
Okay, it is one and the same thing.
Nothing will break, okay?
Cool, you can do that too.
Awesome, right?
So one more important thing which I want to tell.
One more important thing I want to tell you.
Listen to me very carefully, right?
Link tag.
What is this link tag?
What is this link tag?
Who developed this link tag?
Who developed this link tag?
Remix developed it, right?
Remix developers would have developed it,
but the amazing part is
we don't have to use an anchor tag,
but we have to use a link tag, right?
But at the end of the day,
if you go to the elements and see
what is there inside my home, right?
Let us go and see what is there.
What is there inside my UL?
It is again an anchor tag?
Oh my God.
I wrote a link tag over here, right?
I wrote a link tag over here, isn't it?
What is this?
Akshay, you have wasted our time.
You said that, okay, you don't have to use an anchor tag.
No, link is already using an anchor tag, right?
Is this a joke?
Why should I write a link?
Why should I import it from Reactor Outer Dom?
Why should I do, at the end of the day,
it is an anchor tag?
So, you know, at the end of the day,
the link component uses an anchor tag behind the scenes,
but we use this link tag because now
my Reactor Outer Dom, my sweet little Reactor Outer Dom,
it's not actually little.
It is my sweet big awesome Reactor Outer Dom.
You know, I'm just bribing my Reactor Outer Dom, okay?
So, my Reactor Outer Dom is doing some black magic
behind the scenes and converting this to an anchor tag,
but it is also keeping a track of this link.
Just like we create UState, right?
It is a local variable, React is keeping track of it.
Now, of these links, Reactor Outer Dom
is keeping track of all of that.
My Reactor Outer Dom is keeping a track
of all of this link.
Browser understands anchor tag.
So, at the end of the day,
we need to convert everything
to something which browser understands.
That is why it's a anchor tag behind the scenes, okay?
Make sense?
Cool, if it does not make sense,
watch the recording once again, it will make sense to you.
Let's move ahead, okay?
I have to code a lot.
Let us just quickly write it down.
Otherwise, you will again, we will be very late, okay?
Now, I want to show you the nested routing.
I want to show you nested routing, okay?
What is the problem in our app is, right now,
the problem with our app is,
if I load my About Us page, where is my header and footer?
Where is my header and footer?
Our header and footer is gone, right?
So, let us try, we want to keep the header and footer intact
whether I go to my About Us page,
whether I go to my Contact Us page,
whether I go anywhere, I want my About Us page
to be inside my between the header and footer, okay?
Let's try to write code for it.
What will we do?
Let's, we will have to change our routing config, okay?
The routing config that we did, what we said,
if it is slash load app layout, right?
If it is about, load about,
what if I need to load my About
between my header and footer?
How will I do that?
Very important thing, listen to me carefully,
otherwise you won't be able to understand this.
Listen to me carefully, right?
I want my About to render over here, right?
I want my About to render over here, right?
If path is, path is slash about, render this, right?
If my path is slash render this,
does this make sense?
Does this make sense?
Okay, so how will I write this configuration?
I will have to change my configuration over here, okay?
So now, first of all, I will have to make my About page
the children of app layout.
I will have to make my About page children of app layout
because it should come inside app layout,
not outside of app layout.
It should come inside app layout,
it should not come outside app layout, right?
It should be inside my app layout, right?
Between the header and footer.
It should be like that, right?
So what I will do, let me remove this.
Let me remove this, okay?
Or let me keep it here, I will tell you.
Let's keep it for a reference.
But how do I make my children of app layout, okay?
I will have to make my children of app layout.
How do I make it?
There is something known as children here.
You can create children of your route.
So if I have this route over here slash,
I can create multiple children of my route.
Okay, how will I create my children?
It will take exactly the same configuration here, okay?
It will take exactly the same configuration, okay?
Slash about and now my about is the child of my app layout.
My about is the child of app layout.
Does this make sense?
Does this make sense, this configuration?
Because I wanted my about to be children of app layout,
it should be inside my app layout, right?
And my body is also inside my app layout.
Not my body, I mean my app's body component
is inside this app layout.
So these should be children, right?
So if I have my path slash about, it is a children.
Suppose my, suppose if there is a page, okay?
Let us create a contact page also.
Very quickly, let us create a contact page, okay?
How do I create a contact page?
Contact.js, you know, I have become expert
in creating components by keeping
on creating components from scratch, okay?
Quickly create a contact page, okay?
Return H1 tag, okay?
I'm just returning just one tag.
Let's call it as contact us page, okay?
Contact us page H1 and let us just close this.
Let us just export my default, default contact, okay?
I have made this contact page.
Let us just load my contact page.
Where should my contact page come in?
Here, does that make sense?
Does that make sense?
If my path is slash contact,
how will I write the configuration for this?
How will I create this configuration for this?
How will I create the configuration for contact?
I will create one more children over here
with slash contact, right?
Slash contact, okay?
Here is the contact, not contacts, okay?
So now my app layout will have children, okay?
So let us just try to render it.
Let us just try to render it.
Will this work?
Will this work?
Will this work?
It won't work, right?
Because I have put in all of them together.
It will load all of it together.
See, contact us page also came on the page.
About us also came.
And my search page also came, right?
Body also came.
This is not the right way to do it, isn't it?
Not the right way to do it.
How I want to put in, if the page is slash about,
I want to load about, if the page is contact,
I want to put contact, if it is a normal slash,
it will be body, right?
How do I do it?
Now listen to me very carefully, right?
I will not pass anything over here.
This is the place I want to render random things, right?
This is the place I want to render anything thing, right?
This is basically the place, right?
This is basically the outlet.
I have to, this is the outlet
where I have to fill in different pages.
We have to fill in different pages in this outlet.
So React Router DOM gives us access
to something known as outlet, okay?
Something known as outlet.
Outlet is what is a component.
And I will put my outlet here, okay?
This outlet will be filled by my, this configuration, okay?
Outlet will be filled by the children configuration.
Let me explain you once again.
First of all, if you have to create nested routes,
if you have to create nested routes,
you will have to create a outlet.
I want my header footer to be always there in my app.
I want middle portion to keep on changing
according to my route.
Let me repeat it once again.
I want my header and footer to be always there.
I want my header and footer to be always there.
What should change things in between?
What should change the content in the outlet should change?
My outlet should render according to my config.
Outlet render according to my config.
Now, whatever children we have over here
will go into my outlet.
Note it down in your notebook, very important thing.
All the children's will go into the outlet.
All the children's will go into the outlet
according to the route.
According to the route,
all the children's will go into the outlet.
Let us just see.
See, now I am on my about us page.
Now I am on slash about.
We have our about us page, isn't it?
If I go to my contact page, it is my contact page.
But what happens if I go to this page?
It does not have my body.
Sorry, the body component.
By the way, keep calling my body.
It does not have body, right?
So, I will have to also pass a children for my body.
Right, for my body component.
Okay, so path is slash and here we have our body.
Body.
Okay, so this body component will go inside the outlet
when the route is this.
My about component will go inside the outlet
when the route is about.
When the route is contact,
outlet will be filled by this component.
Does it make sense?
Does it make sense?
Awesome, let's see it in action.
Let us make this contact page also a link, right?
Okay, let's quickly toggle between the pages.
Okay, where is my header?
Here it is, right?
Let us just create one more link, sorry.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
I have my contact.
Let me have my contact page component in my contact route.
Okay, does this make sense?
Let's go back to our app and see things working.
Sorry for the bad UI.
You people are amazing in CSS.
I was seeing assignments of you guys.
You people have, you people are masters of CSS.
Why were you asking me to teach you CSS?
You people write so amazing CSS, yeah.
You should teach me.
Why it did not load?
Okay, if we refresh the page, now see,
in the home page, when we load the slash route,
so the body went inside the outlet.
When we have a route of slash, our body went inside, right?
So if I click on my about page, it loads the about.
When I click on the contact, it loads the contact.
And the amazing part you see, right?
It is not refreshing the page, see?
Is it refreshing the page?
It's not refreshing the page.
It is not refreshing the page.
Some people are very clever.
They are asking that show us the HTML, Akshay.
What is happening in the reconciliation?
Oh my God, I taught you all amazing stuff
and now you are questioning me.
Oh, nice, nice.
I'll show you, I'll show you, okay?
Let us just see.
Now just keep on seeing what is changing inside our DOM, okay?
Our header will be there always.
It won't change, okay?
See, I am going to my about page.
I am going from the about to contact, see?
Do you see what is changing?
Do you see?
I am going from about to contact quickly.
See, what is changing?
Do you see the change?
Header is there as it is.
Header is there as it is, right?
This header does not go anywhere.
Header does not go anywhere.
Our reconciliation algorithm exactly knows
what needs to be loaded on the page according to the route.
Awesome.
Why is the root getting changing, right?
Why is the root getting changing?
So it is getting changing because Chrome is just showing us
that something inside the root changed, okay?
It's not getting changed.
Something inside root got changed.
Something inside root got changed.
That is this branch, okay?
That is this branch is getting changes over here, right?
Root is not changing, okay?
It is just showing.
But you see it cleverly, right?
It just changes it.
And amazing thing is I'll go to home now.
It will make an API call, right?
See, it changed twice.
See, when I go from about to home, right?
It will change twice because it renders two times.
Because it renders two times.
Repeating it once again.
Repeating it once again, okay?
If I go to my about us and now I'm go to contact us.
See, our root changes and child changes.
So root is not changing anything.
It is just showing that in our root something got changed.
That is why it is reflecting over here, right?
And nothing else changed, right?
And see header.
Header is not changing anything.
Let's see.
Header is not changing anything.
Header is at its core place, right?
Now, right?
Now you would say that, okay?
Akshay, where is outlet?
Where is outlet?
Outlet is nowhere.
HTML does not recognize outlet.
Outlet has got filled with what you put inside that outlet.
React router DOM is doing everything for us.
React router DOM knows exactly
what needs to be loaded when.
Make sense?
Cool.
So now if I go from about to contact,
see only the major pages.
You code it down in your laptop
and just switch the pages.
You will understand it properly.
Now when I go to home, right?
How many times the page will re-render?
If I go to my home, how many times page will render?
Two times.
First time it will render.
Then it will make an API call.
Then it will again re-render.
Isn't it?
Render API call again re-render.
Now, see, when I go to home,
don't look on the top,
just keep looking in the HTML, okay?
I am just hiding it up, right?
Just see this HTML, what happens when I load on home, right?
Once it will render, then it will API call,
then it will again render.
See, once, twice, right?
Did you see this?
See it once again.
I am just showing it to you once again.
On account of three, I am clicking on it once again.
Click one, second time, right?
So this is, this is amazing thing.
This is guys amazing thing.
This is amazing, my friends, right?
React Router DOM is doing a lot of amazing things for us, right?
If you have any concerns, play with it, right?
You will be amazed by the power of React Router.
It is doing it everything very fast,
loading it again and again.
Let me just quickly repeat it once again
for people who did not understand, okay?
So sometimes what we have to do is,
we have to load several components according to our routing, right?
Suppose if the route is slash about,
I want to load the about between my header and footer.
So wherever we need to do that dynamic
or conditional routing, right?
So we will put a outlet here.
So outlet is like a place where you,
where your configuration will fill it.
Outlet is like a placeholder, right?
In this placeholder,
this body component will go in if the route is slash.
If my route is slash about,
our about will go in the outlet.
If my slash contact is the path,
this contact will go inside the outlet.
It's like a container, right?
It's like a container.
Is this outlet name compulsory?
Yes, because this is the outlet name
given by react router DOM.
It is just a, what is outlet?
What is outlet?
What is outlet?
It is a component, right?
It's a named export component, that's all.
Somebody wrote it for us.
It is doing some extra things for us,
but yes, it is a component.
That's all, right?
Now, some people are saying,
what if our outlet is not in the middle
and it is below footer?
Will this work, Akshay?
Nice question, right?
Nice question, it's not a nice question.
It will work, why?
It won't change anything.
It won't change anything.
Now our footer will go up, that is all, right?
If I go to home, let me go to about page header,
footer, about.
If I go to contact page, header, footer, contact page.
Easy, right?
Expected behavior, you can put in your,
you can just use this outlet, okay?
You can just use this outlet.
You can use this outlet like this.
What will happen now?
My header and footer has gone.
My header and footer has gone.
How will I go to next page then, okay?
Let me go by like this, okay?
See, header and footer has gone.
It will still work, right?
So now I can't explain you more
better than this, right?
I have just taken so much time
to explain this small concept.
Now we will code very fast, not very fast.
We will code it quickly.
I want to show you an important thing, okay?
I want to build a feature, very important feature, right?
I will show you dynamic, not dynamic.
What do we call it as?
Dynamic keys, I don't know what.
I'm forgetting the name.
Dynamic route, just give me a moment.
I'm forgetting the name.
See, that is why I don't like interviews, right?
They give us so much jargons, right?
And I forget all these jargons.
What do we call it as?
Dynamic segments?
Yup, dynamic segments, okay?
Dynamic routing.
I'll tell you.
The name is dynamic routing, okay?
So dynamic routing means, let's go to cg.com, right?
I'll show you what is dynamic routing.
So when I click on Asha Tiffins,
so see, it goes to restaurant slash Asha Tiffins, right?
If I click on Namaste, it goes to restaurant slash Namaste.
It is dynamic, right?
Our route is changing dynamically.
What is happening is, how do we create
this dynamic routing?
If my route is, see, if my route is slash restaurant slash my ID, right?
And this ID can be dynamic, isn't it?
This ID is dynamic.
Did you understand what is the meaning of dynamic?
Yes or no?
This is a dynamic route.
Because we don't know anything can be there in place of ID.
ID can be one, two, three, four, five, six.
Namaste, Asha Tiffins.
Whatever, right?
So let us try to build this cool thing
because we will need it, right?
What I am going to build now is,
if I click on Grameen, it should take me to Grameen page.
Shall we build it?
Are you aligned with me?
Let us quickly build the last portion of today's session.
Let us quickly build it, amazing feature.
If we click on Grameen, it should take me to Grameen page.
If I click on Rotiwala, it should take me
to Rotiwala page.
And I am feeling very hungry right now seeing all this.
Anyways, okay?
So let us try to build a component for this, okay?
Can we build a component restaurant detail?
Let's build a component restaurant detail.
Let's call it as restaurant detail.
Give a good name for this component.
Restaurant detail, what should I give?
Let's keep it restaurant detail only.
Name whatever you wish to, later, okay?
Rename, restaurant details, details, okay?
Basically it's a restaurant page, right?
It will show you the, okay, let's give it restaurant menu.
It should show us restaurant menu, right?
Let's try to build it quickly, okay?
Can we show it?
Let me just do it quickly.
It is a lot to code, right?
What will we do?
We click on Grameen, it should take us to a page
which is Grameen's page, okay?
Which is Grameen page, right?
Or Rotiwala page, okay?
So let us build a restaurant menu page.
Constant, restaurant menu, menu is equals
to our functional component.
There is nothing new I am doing.
And this page should have our JSX.
This page should return some JSX to us.
This JSX is a div, right?
In this div, we have a H1 tag
which says our restaurant ID, right?
Restaurant ID, one, two, three, right?
And then we can have the name of the restaurant.
Let's give it a name Namaste.
I don't know why the Namaste restaurant exists,
but suppose if the name is Namaste,
let's go to this restaurant page, okay?
We will export our default constant,
default restaurant menu, right?
Now, I want my route to be dynamic
on this route.
I should load my restaurant menu.
I should load my restaurant menu, okay?
Let us just put an element
and let me load a restaurant menu.
Okay, we have our restaurant menu
and I think I have a plugin known as auto imported,
quickly imported it.
Black magic, again black magic by VS Code.
Okay, so restaurant menu, right?
Did you understand this?
Why I created this?
Did you explain this?
Right, cool.
So let's go to our restaurant page.
If I go to my restaurant page, will this work?
Tell me, will this URL work now?
Will this URL work?
No, yes, no, yes.
Yep, we have our URL in our outlet.
We have our restaurant page in our component, right?
It's there.
The outlet got filled with,
the outlet got filled with,
this outlet got filled with my restaurant menu
on this route.
And this is my friend's dynamic.
I passed in one, two, three here.
I, if I pass in one, two, three, four.
Cool.
It can be anything, ID, right?
Now let me, let us go back and see, okay?
Let us go back to our restaurant menu.
Now, let us try to read this ID.
Let us try to read this ID into our component.
How will I read this ID?
React router DOM is super powerful, my friends.
It gives us access to amazing things, right?
We will load something known as, I'll tell you.
It has such a beautiful API, right?
It has such a beautiful API,
it gives us access to something known as use params.
Use params, it's the routing parameters, right?
So what is use params at the end of the day?
What is use params?
It's a hook.
You already know what I'm going to ask.
People have already started writing hook.
Amazing.
You people are catching up my teaching style, right?
You exactly know what I'm going to ask now.
Let's use our params, okay?
Let's first see and use params.
How do we call this use params?
It's just a normal function.
There need to worry about, you know,
when I was building this Namaste React live course,
a lot of students came to me and said,
Akshay, will you teach us hooks?
I don't understand what is react hooks.
There is something magical in react hooks.
Hooks is just normal functions.
Hook is just normal functions.
Okay, so we have our use params.
Now we will get this params from our route.
Let's just try to see what we get inside our params, okay?
Let's just try to see what we have inside our params, right?
Cool, we have our ID.
We have our ID with us now in our component, isn't it?
If I give this ID as 9876543210,
not zero, it's zero, zero, right?
And I hit enter, it gives me this ID.
Okay, this is not my number.
This is my number, yes.
You can call me, okay?
So this is the number, right?
Which we get in params.
How do I read my ID?
I can de-structure it, right?
I can de-structure my ID.
I can write something like this.
ID is equals to params and I can even use it here, right?
Can I use this here?
Will this work?
Will this work?
Tell me yes or no.
What do you think, my friends?
Will this work or not?
Yes, this works perfectly fine.
If I change this to 54321, 54321,
it works exactly fine.
It is giving us correct ID.
And some cool developers would also like
to de-structure on the fly, okay?
Also like to de-structure on the fly.
How do you de-structure on the fly?
You can do something like this, okay?
Some cool developers will do this.
And you know, people, then a lot of developers say,
Akshay, can we do this?
Yes, this is JavaScript.
This is JavaScript, normal JavaScript, right?
So if you find a code written like this,
don't get panicked, okay?
You don't have to panic if the code is like this.
Let me repeat it once again.
Suppose if we have a dynamic route,
restaurant slash any ID,
how do we configure it?
The configuration comes like this.
The configuration comes like this, restaurant slash ID.
Whatever you pass in over here, this ID is not, see,
this ID is not a hard-coded ID.
You can put res ID, whatever you put in, right?
Will come as a param here.
Whatever you put in, will come as a param here.
Here I'll have to write res ID, okay?
See, if I refresh my page, we have it working.
React Router DOM gives us access to this hook,
which is known as use params.
We can read the URL.
So basically what I showed you right now,
how to, how to,
read a dynamic URL, params.
Make sense?
Make sense?
Cool.
Thumbs up, I need thumbs up quickly, okay?
Now, what will happen is, let's try to make this page, okay?
Now I can read this ID.
So let's just go to Swiggy, okay?
Let's try to play with the data, right?
Play with production data.
Let's try to use Meghna Biryani.
Oh my God, Meghna Biryani, Paneer 65.
Okay.
Let us just go to our console, okay?
Have you tried Meghna Biryani, anyone?
What is the review?
I'll be in Bangalore, so I'll try this out.
Where is the API call here?
Where is the API call?
Oh, did it not load any API call?
Hard refresh.
Where is my API call?
Hard reload.
Where is my API call?
Let's go back, inspect.
I can't see my API call.
Yep, so we have this API call.
This gives us the full information about the restaurant, see?
This API call is getting the information
about this Grameen restaurant, right?
Grameen restaurant, and it is also giving us
the menu details, right?
See this data.
This says that okay, this is the ID,
this is the name of restaurant Grameen, right?
This is the name of restaurant Grameen, right?
And it is in Kormangala, it's in Bangalore, right?
We have the address for it.
We have a North Indian healthy food.
Okay, I should try this out.
It has healthy food, it gives us the cuisine,
it gives us all the information required
to put in the restaurant details page.
Lol, ha ha ha.
Hey, don't chat.
You people started chatting over here?
Listen to me carefully, you won't understand.
I won't repeat it now again, okay?
I am teaching you, you are like,
I need to be a bad teacher, right, otherwise.
So what it is going is,
this API is giving us detail about this restaurant, right?
And this menu ID is the restaurant ID.
I suppose, let us just see.
Let us go back to some other restaurant.
Let's just go back to Meghna Foods, okay?
If I go to Meghna Foods, see,
Meghna Foods is this.
See, this is Meghna Foods.
See, the ID is 229.
The ID is 229, right?
So this menu ID over here is the restaurant ID.
Okay, so let us just try to make this API call.
How do we make an API call?
How do we make an API call?
Yep, you already know that, right?
What will I use?
Use effect, right?
Let us just try to make an API call
and get the data into our restaurant detail page.
Over here, let's get the details, okay?
So use effect.
What will use effect take?
Quickly, you should answer my questions quickly.
What will it take?
A callback function.
And what is the second argument over here?
What should I write in the second argument?
Quickly tell me, yep, all of you are right.
We should pass in a empty dependency array.
In this, we will get restaurant info, right?
Restaurant info, right?
Get restaurant info.
This get restaurant info is a async function
because we are making an API call.
We don't, we want to make it as a async function, right?
To handle our promises, right?
So async function, async function, get restaurant info
and what I will do, we have taught this
so I'm going a little faster now, right?
We will do a constant data is equals to fetch, right?
And this fetch will take a URL.
This is the API which I need to call, okay?
Let's take this API of Magna food
and let us see if we can call this API right now.
Will this work, my dear friends?
Yes or no?
What do you think?
Will this work?
Constant JSON is equals to data.json, data.json, right?
And we will have a console.log of JSON.
Will this work, my dear friend?
I did not put await, so how will this work?
Thank you so much.
You people are amazing.
I forgot this.
I really forgot this this time, okay?
So, okay, I did my async function restaurant, right?
And I put a await here.
See, that is why you should code slow, okay?
I was talking and coding very fast, so.
Yep, we have our API data with us.
Awesome.
We have got the API data with us.
We have got the Magna biryani.
What is this?
Magna foods.
Yep, we have the Magna food, biryani,
Andhra, 500 rupees for two.
Okay, okay, 250 for one.
500 rupees for two, biryani.
Cool.
So anyways, we have our use effect.
Now, what I have to do is,
let us just try to render this.
Let us just try to render this into our page.
How will I render this?
How will I render this?
Quickly.
This is a revision from last class.
Her shit is amazing.
Chavi is amazing.
Rajiv is amazing.
Srinivas, CLND, yep, Karan.
You people are amazing.
You exactly know we need to create a use state for it,
right?
We will create a state variable.
Give me a better name.
I am just using a short name, okay, res, and set res.
When I'm writing set res,
assume that it's a restaurant.
Never use res.
I am doing wrong, right?
Use proper names.
Let me, let me write.
I am just doing it because I want to complete it fast.
Like restaurant, I hate it, right?
Use proper names, okay?
This is not a proper name, right?
Use state.
Where does this use state come from?
Where will this use state come from?
Where will this use state come from?
Quickly.
It will come from my react.
You know, a lot of react developers,
lot of react developers rely on auto import.
They rely on auto import.
I want you all, all my students over here in this call
and in our batch should exactly know
which of the hook is coming from which library.
Never ever use auto import.
Never use it.
You know, a lot of developers, you know,
they don't remember where this hook comes from.
I want you to be developer.
You should exactly know each and every single word you know.
Whatever word I am writing,
each and every letter, text, what I am writing,
you should know the meaning of it.
You should know the meaning of each and every word
that I'm writing.
Why I am writing?
If you don't know that,
be curious, find it out.
Basics are important.
Right?
So we have a use state which is coming from react.
You should exactly know how my use param
is coming from where, which library?
You should know.
Most people don't remember.
They just copy paste from random files.
Don't copy paste, write it down.
Use state should have a default value.
What should be the default value?
The default value over here,
the data is a object, right?
So let us create a object, empty object.
And I need to fill this object with the actual data, right?
How do I fill this data?
Set res, right?
Set res.
Let me just use proper name also, right?
I am feeling bad by not using good names.
Restaurant, okay?
Set res, res, round, okay?
Set restaurant, res, round.
I don't know, I mean, I'm bad at spellings.
Set restaurant, what should I pass in?
I'll pass in JSON.data into it.
Cool, so now we should have our JSON.data with us
in our page, right?
Set restaurant is not a function.
Did I misspell it?
Did I misspell it?
Refresh the page.
Save it, refresh the page.
Set restaurant is not a function.
Sorry, my bad.
Oh, my bad, my bad, my bad, my bad.
My bad, my bad, my bad.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
You have filled the whole chat with this array, cool.
I was taking in, I was writing the object inside you state
and like, I just made it, right?
You people are amazing.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much everyone for awesome.
See, you know, this is what the vibe of live teaching is.
Right?
Vive of live teaching, I make mistakes live, right?
Okay, anyways, so we have this, right?
Let us just quickly, quickly write it up, right?
Let's populate our page, right?
With this, so we have our restaurant ID.
Now I want my restaurant dot,
let's bring our image right here.
Can we bring our image or name, right?
We have our restaurant name here, right?
Meghna Foods, let us get image.
Can we get the image?
Do we have image over here?
Yep, we have this cloudinary image ID, right?
This cloudinary image ID.
Let us have our IMG tag, IMG tag, right?
Not this closing tag, right?
IMG tag and we will have a SRC is equals to image,
restaurant dot, restaurant dot, cloudinary image.
But I will need that link also, right?
I am waiting for some people to, yep, you are right.
Ankit Mahule, awesome man.
This is what I was looking for.
Divya Chavda, thank you so much.
You are amazing.
Yes, so I was waiting for somebody
to write that in the chart.
So what we will do is, we will use the same CDN URL
that we used last time, which is present inside our
contact, not contact, constants.
Where is our constants?
Constants.js, right?
Now you understood the importance
of our config and constants.
Did you understood the importance
of our constant and config?
We can reuse it anywhere I want to.
What will I do is, I will import my CDN URL directly.
IMG CDN URL from my constants.
Cool, now I will just do IMG CDN plus this.
Will this work?
Do you think this will work?
Oh, did I misspelled it?
Okay, I misspelled my restaurant name.
Thank you so much.
You have a eagle eye.
You have a eagle eye.
Let us just see.
Oh, nice, nice looking biryani on our page.
Awesome, awesome.
Let's use some more info, right?
Let's use the area, let's use city.
Let's use area city and,
area city, area city and rating.
Where is the rating?
Area city, average rating.
Area city, rating, cost for two.
I will forget.
Area city, rating, cost for two.
Okay, remind me.
Area city, rating, cost for two.
Area city, oh my God.
Area, right?
And then we can have restaurant.area city, right?
Area city, rating.
What is their average rating or something, right?
What was the name?
AVG rating, right?
AVG rating means stars, right?
Basically 4.4 stars.
And what?
Cost for two, okay.
Cost for two, cost for two message.
Come on, I was not expecting this from Swiggy.
See, we saw a bad thing in the API.
See, isn't it a bad thing?
We have an average rating.
Then we have an average rating string.
You know, this is what happens.
This is what happens when the developer, you know,
there would be, I know why this is happening.
There would already be average rating,
but some developer would have thought that,
okay, let me pass it as a string.
So they have introduced a new parameter.
We should not have, right?
We have 4.4, then why do we need the string?
We can convert anything in string anytime, right?
See, we found the legacy code inside our Swiggy app.
Cheers.
Anybody of you who will join Swiggy, right?
Who will crack Swiggy's interview, fix this?
Will you fix this?
Join Swiggy and fix this, okay?
Cool, so there are cost for two also.
See, cost for two is 550,000.
Okay, it must be in paisa, in rupees, 500, dot, dot, right?
So we will not need two things, right?
So basically, this is not a good practice, right?
Vada raha, oh my God, you people are cost for two message.
Cost for two message.
So see, Swiggy developers and everybody is like us only, okay?
So we have our image here, okay?
You can just resize the image and whatnot, right?
Let me just try to get menu also.
Let us try to render menu, right?
Let us try to render menu.
See, we have menu items.
We have this items, plain rice, paneer 65, chili paneer,
oh my God.
Let us just try to get these items onto our page, okay?
Let's create a dev for it, okay?
Let's do it quickly.
It is fun.
I really want the menu to be on my page now.
Paneer 365, paneer 65.
Why it is 65 though?
Do you know why it is 65?
Menu.items, right?
So see, one more cool thing, one more cool thing is,
this is a list of objects.
This is an array of objects, okay?
We will have to loop on this array of objects, right?
This is the object, right?
This is the object, got it?
This is the, not the object, sorry, this is the object.
I'll show you what I'm trying to say.
I'll show you what I'm trying to say, okay?
If you do a restaurant.menu.item, dot restaurant.menu,
menu dot item dot restaurant dot menu dot restaurant dot menu dot items items right and let me do a console log right console dot log
basically this is the menu items right these are the menu items so see these are so many objects
this is not an array this is objects this is a key and this is a value this key and a value
so what we have to do is we will have to iterate over the values how would i do that
how will i do that i will use something known as object dot values people who are not understanding
after the class go ahead read about it i am not explaining you right away so when you do object
dot values it will give us all list of now it gave us an array now it gave us an array of objects
now we can map it now we can map it i am telling you right now only many people will get
errors because of this and they will post in the discord community i don't want any
errors of this posted in discord community because read it this is important right why i
am doing object dot values what is the use of it so basically it is converting my
objects right the whole objects into my arrays right array of values okay so now i will loop
onto it right i will now loop onto it let me quickly loop right first of all let me
create a h1 tag let's call this as menu okay what is the time how much time is left okay
we don't have much time let us just quickly go i have to catch a flight also okay so
let me just quickly do it up for you right let us create a ul li okay i am not making a fancy
UI here right i am not making a fancy UI let us list down all the menu items wouldn't it be
amazing if i get the menu on the page would be would it be amazing if i get the menu items on the
page let's do the map right map of each item right and let's go and return a li from it
li from it right and what should i fill in my li my item dot let us see what our item has
our item dot where is it item dot name right item dot name item dot name does it also have
an id i am forgetting one thing id we should have a key for it isn't it always remember my
dear friends if you are doing a map always use a key now we already have an id over here for this
right this id right so what i will write over here key is equals to item dot id make sense
will it list will it list down our menu quickly tell me yes let us just see our menu oh my god
we have our menu it is not looking as beautiful as swiggy right swiggy has a great css over here
golden baby con paneer 65 but we have a decent looking menu isn't it it is looking like a menu
of our that we menu we get inside a restaurant right on the page printed let us put some css to
make it look better class equals to menu okay menu let us make it a flex quickly let me make it a flex
it will look better i am not putting a lot of focus on css but
menu menu right and let us give it display flex okay cool my dear friends isn't it cool
it is not looking very good see oh again a mistake i wanted to show you this mistake
what is the mistake tell me tell me this mistake optional chaining you people are experts you know
whosoever is saying optional chaining you did your homework cool but why is it happening
is one more reason because till the time our restaurant are not there right in the initial
render it is an empty object but still i am reading a lot of things from this empty object
that is why it will give the error once again right it will give the error once again did you
understand why because on initial render our page is empty object right our page is empty object
right so we do not want this i will i will tell you a quick way to fix it okay so on
initial render let us not render empty object let us render null okay let us render null
okay and i can do a l early return i can do a early return if my if my restaurant is
if my restaurant is not right then i can just return
okay instead of early return let's let's do a shimmer right let's do a shimmer okay till the api is
called it is being called let's do a shimmer right this is the beauty of react right we can reuse
the components see because we made now this is a very important thing there were people who
were asking should i create a new component for shimmer remember in the last class somebody
asked me this question right that should i create a new component for shimmer see component for shimmer
has helped us now we can reuse it again right so shimmer imported from shimmer right and then
we have our shimmer or else we can write like this right we can write like this only using
our ternary operator right if are not of restaurant then load our shimmer else load our
does this make sense to any everyone if it does not make sense i have taught this to you already
i'm not explaining this to you again okay if not of restaurant load shimmer else load my
normal page will this work okay export default restaurant menu what did i do wrong cannot
assign property to message cannot assign property message where what what error do we get
export default restaurant menu cannot assign read only property message of oh did i make a
mistake oh i i sorry sorry sorry i removed a parenthesis from here my bad my bad my bad
not a coding bug yep so we have this with us right let us refresh the page
we have our shimmer see shimmer with us cool does this look cool my dear friends cool right
now let us just quickly make everything dynamic right but let us make you know what we are building
is super powerful why because this restaurant is being loaded from a dynamic route dynamic route
if i change my id over here will my page change will my page change let us go back to swiggy
let us grab the grab the id of our gramming right this is another restaurant right if i load the
page of gramming whoosh where it is let us load the page of gramming oh did i not use
gramming oh my god why it is not loading gramming because i have hard coded my api
array i was about to show you an amazing thing i was about to show you some magic and shoot
very bad i was about to show you the magic and everybody would have been so excited
but my bad my bad my bad my bad my bad friends okay so basically i need to pass in dynamic id
from my data right yep gramming is live now can we get a thumbs up can we get a thumbs up now
gramming is live with us when you write your code in a modular fashion listen to me very carefully
important lesson when you write your code in a modular fashion then we can reuse it a lot
okay we can reuse it a lot just by changing my route id i can just load a new restaurant
see isn't it amazing isn't it amazing magna food came in if i go back
my gramming came in if i go front my magna food came in this is so amazing guys
this is amazing right we have our menu i can show all the information about the menu right
whatever information you want to show just show it you have all the data over here right
property class okay i did not use class name somewhere
my bad where did i use class okay class name okay so we have our class name we have this
data right so we i can use any piece of menu i can put in price also suppose jeera rice is
hundred rupees so you can put in you can make those fancy uis but this is the power of react
router dom react and it is loading very fast everything is happening very fast there is
a reconciliation whenever you load this route right a reconciliation process triggers shimmer
happens we are building a production ready app it is no way less than swiggy it is no
way less than if you go to swiggy they would have also written code like this they would have
also written code like this but let us just make it work right what should happen is on my home
if i click on kanur food point it should take me to kanur food point if i look click on donate
biryani it should take me to donate biryani let us make that right let us make this cool thing
right our app should work properly how will i do that how will i do that i will just link
i will just link these components right this is the last part i am doing then we will wind up right
because it is it was a very knowledge heavy session you know the the sessions will be
more knowledge heavy as we go ahead right so keep doing your assignments keep finishing it
let's go to body we have a restro card with us right this restro card let us wrap it inside
our link right let us have our link to right link to link to what link to what let us let us link it
right let us link this why is it complaining oh i did not import my link the link will come from
where link will come from where quickly tell me link will come from should i do it like this
should i do it like this oh my dear friends i should be a named import you should remember
all of this right it's a good practice good habit to remember what is what is it complaining
what is it complaining here did i messed up something okay i have okay sorry sorry my bad my bad my bad
i closed it right so in the link to right slash restaurant and i also want to give it a dynamic
id right dynamic id how do i give it i need a jsx like here right and i need to pass in a dynamic id
plus id how will i get this is the id right let me tell you one more thing right now we are mapping
our link component so this key should be in our link component okay whatever we are running
map on the key should be on that okay so now we have a link let us go back to our page oh my god
css css css oh css it is looking a little ugly but trust me my friends all these cards are
clickable now see okay if i click on kanur food point will it take me to kanur food point
if i click on hotel empire will it take me to hotel empire yes or no yes let us see this in action
in three two one hotel empire hotel empire is live with us hotel happy new year happy shake
is missing be happy new year see this right so if we go back to roti wala it takes us to roti wala
amazing right and you know this is not a normal app we have done so much today we have created
dynamic routes we have dynamic id is associated with each route with the id of this restaurant
we have fetched in some information using use effect we have pushed in term data we have
our shimmer effect my friends we have shimmer effect with us we are not failing anywhere
if i click on asha defense it takes me to this page we have showed the menu items we have showed
asha defense menu here right and we have done this we are moving ahead we are moving on to the
cool things we the knowledge all these lessons will be more knowledge heavy as we go ahead
please keep doing your assignments i have to go to catch my flights i will do a quick recap
but i wanted to show you that this is very important thing your homework for today is
your homework for can i have some energy you people are not having energy today can i have
some energy thumbs up energy blow it up yep 1.1k 1.2k yes so what i wanted to tell you your
homework for today is you have to make everything dynamic in your app routing should be proper
you should exactly know about what all things that we used you should exactly know about
nested routes you should exactly know about dynamic routes you should exactly know how do
we handle errors in our route how do we create a error page right lots of things that we did
lots of things we did today amazing super session isn't it we have built see this is a
very production ready app right just just pardon my css skills right pardon my css skills otherwise
it is a production ready app it is fast it is optimized it is it has parcel parcel is a beast
it is doing a lot of things right nothing is hard coded over here we are exactly using the
live data disclaimer i am not promoting swiggy hair swiggy has not paid me anything but see
we are using live production swiggy data i am not hard coding anything i am not showing you any data
right so we have this page we have shimmer effect we have beautiful ui we have hooks
amazing things we are doing right this is what you have to do alex surya says that
is this the first batch yes you people are the first live batch it's a mass batch i have run boot
camp before it was a very close audience there very close audience i have taught react so many times
i have taught react multiple times this time i am teaching this live over here to a lot of people
and i wish i can teach a lot more people this knowledge should go everywhere everywhere right
i will teach more people right this is what is the best thing and thank you so much everyone to be
active in the discord community who has not joined discord community join from that link
which is pinned on the comments right we have built amazing thing today you have to build this
all everything should be working see and you know we have built it in such a way
that everything is a different component now let me take a moment to explain you
okay you you should also know what this all this is happening client side routing
this is all client side routing nothing is changing our header stays intact our face
footer stays intact let us appreciate the good things about react react is amazing
header state inside intact footer is there we are going on to different routes everything
is working super smooth everything we have our error page with us if i go to random route error
pages there you can make a beautiful error phase for yourself we have our shimmer which
is happening for every route right that we load suppose if i am loading we have our shimmer
happening amazing let us appreciate it we have this login logout button as well it's not working
but it is amazing thing right so right so we will do all that right amazing things in our app right
we are going to do more heavy knowledge sessions finish your homework before the next class
okay so tired today lot of code shall we recap it once again the whole lesson
it has been two and a half hours i am constantly speaking recap right a quick recap
we will end the session don't want to teach anything else people who want to leave can
leave good night bye bye right sleep now sunday is done you have had a productive sunday happy
makar sankranti right i am just teaching who are here right i am recapping it once again
what we did right from the start right from each and everything that i imported
okay so first of all we talked about we talked about that can we okay we cannot create uh
i told you few things can we create multiple use effect quickly answer me can we create multiple
use effect yes can i write my use state inside a if else can i write a use state inside if else no
i can't write it inside if else i can't write it i should not not can't you can write it you
should not write it inside if else you should not write it inside a for loop okay now what i
went to tell I also showed you how we can have images into our app right how can I import my
image into our app I showed you this right we can have a assets folder IMG or you can have it in
assets and how do we import it let us go to the head right header header section of our app
and we did something known as I logo right this logo come is coming from see remember one crucial
thing one crucial thing this logo comes like a default export you don't have to do a named export
because we are not named name export right we are not doing a named export of an image okay
so it's a default export it will work okay cool some people are asking which I which
which extension am I using for these colorful icons okay these colorful icons you see right
this is a vs code icon extension don't ask me random questions I am teaching something
this is a different extension find it out yourself google it you will get to know
or ask it in discord don't ask me right now you are don't disturb me while I'm teaching
please please please please important stuff I will forget otherwise I will leave okay like I mean
things will be things will go out of my mind I have to actually recall what all I taught today
I told you about image then I also told you about how can you have shimmer inside your app
this shimmer right you don't have to include a another library if you don't need it
otherwise library is like is or is also there right I showed you that right you have to just
create your shimmer like this try to make a beautiful UI using CSS HTML don't do that
okay cool you can use your shimmer then we went on to seeing that okay we have we have
we are app needs a lot of packages and libraries but those packages should be important I told the
name of a of a package that that can help us build forms that can help us fill forms what was that
exactly Irshad is right Rahul is right Vicky is right you are all are paying attention
whosoever remember the name you all are paying attention in my classes you are the first
benchers okay so we have this extension known as formic right we saw that okay formic helps us
and it has helped me a lot in my career so build your forms and react without the tears
so I have just telling you okay if you ever built a react application use this right try to use this
right formic maybe try to to can you build this today will you take one more thing as
assignment build a login page build a login page with a form and you will use formic in it will you
do that give me a thumbs up if you are ready to do that extra homework for you extra homework build a
login page right build a login page when you click on it right it takes us to this page okay will
you build that thumbs up yep huh not authentication ready give it a hard coded true give a hard coded
authentication okay it will be more fun build something of your own okay so we studied about
and use formic try to use formic try to read documentation make a habit of reading documentation
it has a good documentation okay if you go to the tutorial it will teach you everything
how do you create a form and all okay do that right so um then we studied what then we came
on to routing right to do routing to do routing how do I create a router what did I what what
is the function that we used to create a router name that function is does anybody remember
yes it the name is create browser router what do we I am not showing you the code intentionally
over here right you you are amazing if you remember that what do you put inside create browser router
does it take an object or an array object or an array object or an array array array of configuration
array of objects each and every object has what a path and what is the what is the key of that
what is the key that we write for component element exactly how do you put in error element
what is the exact key for an error element error element right I I come on I I told you
error element already not a good question okay so let me let me ask you more question
after making that configuration how do you provide it how do you provide it what is the component
that we used router provider exactly rich are you are amazing Nikita you are amazing
Santosh everything is right router provider now now now now let us just see the code now
okay let us just go back to app.js I have my create browser router who did not understand
create router prouder right create browser router oh my god create browser router it takes an array
of objects each and every object has a path an element an error element and we can have in
children's also right and the important thing to remember is we need to provide this route
now we are not rendering our app layout we are not rendering our app layout we are rendering our
router that means that whatever is rendered onto the root just render it using this config
whatever is rendered using in this route just render it using this config now when the path
is slash it loads about app layout right okay tell me a place tell me a place tell me a
component where you fill in where you fill in yes everybody is right over here that is known as the
outlet where does this outlet come from where does this outlet come from react router dome exactly
some people are saying react dom no react dom oh my god not react dom react router dom
react dom is different react router dom the library that we had
I don't know you need to revise it again okay so now what we did we had this outlet
now whatever children that we make will go inside our outlet whatever children that we make will
go inside the outlet our header and footer remains intact and the outlet will fill in
if I have my about it about will go and this is how we created the children over here
amazing thing right does the sequence matter does this sequence matter
will this sequence matter what do you think no sequence does not matter
sequence does not matter it is an array of objects you can pass in any configuration
awesome right so we did this now we now we provided this app router over here also remember this line
also okay once we have this our application is super powerful now then we went on creating an
error component and we use the hook let me not show you that hook what was the name of that hook
what was the name of the hook to get the error what was the name of that hook
exactly right use route error use route error hook which is give us information about the
error we can display it onto our page right now how do I put my error into into my into
my config how will I put this error page into my config yes you are right it is the error
element absolutely right you people are amazing right we put this error element like this okay
it will catch all the errors and it won't put a error in the console okay for us now in the dev
tools let us just see that what now we started building our restaurant page right then we gave
a dynamic id to this right this dynamic id how do i read my dynamic id how do i read my dynamic id
oh somebody already started writing before even i asked for it use params exactly use param hook
use params right let's go to the restaurant page we have our use params hook amazing part of
the reusable component see because we kept our folder structure so nicely we created a new file
for each component we are exporting files from different component that is why today we have
we you know why because we are building everything in a very good fashion this is how you write
code in production because we are writing it in proper way that is why we are able to reuse a
lot of things that is why we were able to reuse shimmer that is why we were able to reuse our cdn
because make a habit to use all of this whenever you do something right break your break your
components into new files break your small logic into components more components is better
okay don't don't make a component for each button right but make a component for every
logical thing right that will help you make your code modular that will help you make your
code readable that will help you make your code maintainable that will help you made your code
testable that what did i say what did i just said what what what are the four things i told
it will help you make your code modular it will help you make your code readable
it will help you make your code maintainable
it will help you make your code
what? reusable
it will help you make your code
testable
remember all these five points
in your interview
stick it in your
in your interview stick it in
okay
so
uh
modular
reusable
cleaner
maintainable
testable
got it
cool
so
we did that
then
this is the thing
which we saw last time also
we made an api call
we forgot the dynamic import last time
right
we
dynamic id
but then this is how we do
we fetch the data
put it inside a use state variable
and we trigger a reconciliation cycle
from the react fiber
and all that thing happens
very fast
and our react renders are done
with a new principle
got it
always keep using optional chaining
wherever possible
here also you have to use optional
chaining
okay
keep it right
you never know
when area
when did api
stop sending area
you never know
right
suppose if your api
stopped sending you area
right
never know right
so
use this right
to be careful
when you are writing code
okay
so this is what we saw
and then we plugged in
we used
yes
I forgot to tell you
link component
link component
right
I forgot to tell you link component
so link component is used
over here
like this
and always remember that this is not href
this is 2
achha
at the end of the day
what is this link component using
behind the scenes
anchor tag my dear friend
amazing
you know you have to play with your code
you have to do that
and see it in the elements also
in your html
when you switch the page right
see in your elements
when you will do your homework right
see it in the browser
what is changing
how is that reconciliation happening
right
will you do that
right
amazing
you would love react
you know
okay
now I want to ask you one more question
we are at chapter 7 now
are you loving react
are you started liking react
yes or no
yes or no
can we have a react OP in our chat
are you loving react
can we have react OP
yes
this is what my mission is to make you fall in love with react
last time I made you fall in love with javascript
this time I wanted to make you fall in love with react
right
I want to teach you everything
I want to teach you how people write code in the industry
I want to teach you industry ready code
not just normal code with some dummy data no
live data
live things that we use
shimmer
microservices
micro
right I told you everything microservices monolith
config driven routes
right
config
so you should know
client side routing
you should know difference between everything
client side routing
server side routing
you should know every small thing
right
we have a lot more things to cover
the sessions will go more knowledge heavy
if you have not finished your homework
or assignments
I am telling you this is the right point
even if you have not done your first assignment
this is the right point
take this whole week
finish all your assignment
finish all your assignment
this is what we are building
config driven UI architecture
and you know everything right
you know a lot of things now
if you have attended all the classes
right
almost three hours every class
seven classes
seven threes are 21
21 classes
21 hours sorry
21 hours done and dusted
21 hours into react
right
we will fall in love with react even more
let us just
keep doing it
right
and keep learning
please stay active on the discord community
the link to the discord community
will expire very quickly
thank you so much once again
I am stopping to share my screen
right
and
let us just
let us just wind up this session
happy makar sankranti to everyone
have a nice day
and let's meet
next Saturday
with a new concept
in react
and let's continue this journey
be active on discord
second thing is keep doing your assignments
please
okay
bye bye
goodbye
I have to catch a flight
I need to go
we are finishing on time today
157
three minutes left
can we have the energy last time
thumbs up
let's hit the thumbs up
let's break their servers
let's break their servers
come on
1.92
2.1
let's click on it
I am also clicking along with you
let's
let's click the thumbs up
yup
okay some people are saying get pushed
yes
yeah
thank you for reminding me people
you are amazing
let me
let me put this up
right
the recordings take some while to do
right
recording will take some while to come up
meanwhile you can just see the code
right
the code link you will find
where you will find the code link
now people will ask me again
it has been seven sessions
people don't know where they will find the bid bucket link
it has been seven sessions
keep the energy coming in
I am pushing in
pushing the code
chapter 07
sync it sync it up
the code is live
okay
I have pushed the code
bye bye
see you in the next class
let's meet next week
please please finish your assignment
I am telling you once again
and bye bye love you all
okay bye bye
4.4k
let's go at 5k
can we have thumbs up 4.5
4.6
7
8
9
yup
chalo bye bye
