FILE: Episode 08 - Let's get Classy.part002.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

They don't know they just know okay there is this empty bracket it will just happen after one render
It will just render once it will render two or three
Ask any react developers. They are they're confused with this use effect. They just know that okay
I have to write this so they always write this. They don't know what is happening
I'm telling you
React already people who are working in react developers
I'm not roasting. Sorry. I'm not roasting. I'm just telling you the truth, right?
I am also a react developer. I'm not roasting anyone and trust me don't
Like don't go after the class and tell people that Akshay, you know Akshay roast other youtubers and
Akshay roast other react developers. No, I am not roasting anyone. I am very respectful to all the
YouTube teachers who are doing that and I know why they are teaching the way they are teaching because
Because in 20 minutes you can teach like that only, right? It's it's I I don't want to offend anyone, right?
Please don't do that, right?
Okay, what will happen if I write count over here?
What will happen if I write count over here?
What will happen if I write count over here?
Every time my count changes
This will be called does that make sense?
How will I do something like this inside my
class base component? How will I do something like this in my class base component?
Now in class base component, we know one thing. We know that one life cycle method is called
after every render. What is that life cycle method?
What is that life cycle method? You are absolutely right.
That life cycle method is that life cycle method is that life cycle method is component did update.
We know that component did update is called after every update.
Make sense? So you know now we can do a cool thing.
Okay, now we can do a cool thing that if we write count
over here, so that means after whenever this count is changed, this will be called.
This use effect will be called. Okay, easy. Everybody understands this.
But before how pain it was, I'll tell you the pain of doing that, right?
I'll tell you the pain of it, okay? I'll tell you, okay?
What we used to do earlier was I'll tell you, you will say that Akshay,
why are you writing bad code? Okay?
You used to do something like previous props here and previous state.
There was this nomenclature of doing previous prop and previous state.
And then we used to write if this dot state, suppose if this is state, right?
If this dot state dot count is not equal equal to is not equal equal to
basically my extension, my font makes it like this.
If it is not equal to my previous state dot count, then do something.
Oh my God, such a blunder it was, such a blunder it was.
Like I used to pull my hairs every time I have to do something.
I have to pull my hairs, I have to do something.
It is very painful if you have to do this, right?
If you have to do this, you have to write if else.
Suppose if you had to rely on count two also, count two, how will you do that?
Suppose if count changes or count two changes, how will you do that?
You will have to write like this.
If this did not change or this did not change, then you do this, right?
And you write your code inside it, right?
Here you write the code, right?
It is, it is so much painful, right?
The people who are writing in old version of React would know this pain.
Are you there?
Are there people who are already writing like this?
Tell me, yes or no?
Oh, Divya is here, Sanya is here.
See, Ashish, he's writing.
I am here, yeah.
See, so many people, they write like this.
It is very, it is very painful to do that.
So, basically what is this doing is, this basically checks if the previous count
is equal to the latest count, then do this, right?
Over here, you just give it to this, React and React takes care of it automatically.
React says, okay, you write like this, I will take care of everything.
I will take care.
You know, some, you know, some senior developers, some senior developers
also hate this way of writing code.
Why, you know, why senior developers or architect hate this way of writing code?
Because, you know, people who start their React journey by knowing this, right?
They never bother to understand what used to happen before.
And that used to make a major difference in their head.
When you just write code using this, right?
And you don't, see, if I did not have today's session, okay?
If I did not teach you all that, you would have always thought, okay, this is a good way, right?
But you understood, right?
Why, why, why this was all built?
What were the fundamentals which React developers used to build all this use effect?
Right?
Okay, now did you understand that why is this an array?
Did you understand why is this an array?
Did you understand why is this an array?
Because, you know, earlier people used to write this like this.
So React developers said that, okay, let's make it as an array because there can be
multiple, multiple state variables, multiple state variables where might,
my if else might want to do.
You know, there was so much React code that used to follow this convention.
So React developers said, oh my God, this is such a bullshit code.
Let us improve our APIs and they came up with this API.
Got it?
Got it?
Awesome.
See, that is what I wanted to dive deep.
Okay, suppose if I want to do next one more, let's dive even more.
Let's dive even more.
Okay, are you ready?
Should we dive more?
Okay, let's dive even more.
Okay, I'll tell you.
Suppose if I want to do something when my count changes and I want to do something else
when I count two changes, how will I write that in functional component tomorrow?
No, I won't teach class based component tomorrow.
There is a separate session tomorrow.
Okay, I won't.
So we use to use effect.
Why do we use to use effect?
Suppose if I want to do something when we change count something else,
if we have to something else, we are doing something else over here, right?
Suppose there are use cases where you might have to write to use effects.
How you used to do over here, you know how you used to do?
How you used to do this?
So you used to write to if else condition, right?
One for count and one for count to think of the code like this.
You will see this written on production so many times, right?
Think of a code like this.
Think of the code like this.
Such a mess it used to be, such a mess and you know these if else condition are not very small.
These if else condition used to go for like 30-40 lines.
So you don't even know where this end, where is the another if else starting, where is it?
It was, it was.
But you know, lucky are the kids today that who has not written code like this.
Trust me, I have written code like this.
I have written code like this.
Okay.
The kids today, sorry if you get offended if I'm talking, telling you kids,
but I am telling you kids because kids means the newer people who have
started writing functional components in their life.
You should have respect for the old developers.
You should have respect for the old developers.
They used to write like this.
Okay, so I used to write like this and I know that, okay, but we did not have any other way
to do this, right?
So that is why we used to do this.
Okay, okay, okay.
Should I dive more deep?
One more thing is coming into my head.
Should I dive more deep?
Last thing, I'll tell last thing, okay?
This will, this will be amazing thing.
You will love me, right?
You would love react.
Okay, do you love react?
Write, I love react if you love react.
I love react, love you.
People are writing, I love you.
Don't love me, love react.
Yeah, I am, see I am just a messenger.
React was built by somebody else.
You are coding in react.
I am just a messenger.
I am just a teacher.
Right?
So love react.
Yes, yep.
Let me make you fall in love with react even more.
Okay, I'll tell you one more important thing.
Now, okay, you understood, right?
Why, what was the use of component did mount, right?
You understood it clearly.
You understood the use of component did update.
Clearly, right?
Clearly you understood.
Let me tell you amazing thing.
When will we use component will and mount?
Akshay, you, you might be getting that question.
Akshay, is it even useful?
What would I have to do
while unmounting?
What will I do?
Now, a lot of people say cleanup.
A lot of people say cleanup, right?
What type of cleanup?
What cleanup?
What cleanup should we do?
What cleanup should I do?
Now I will tell you amazing thing
that will blow up your mind.
Okay.
You have, you would have not never seen that.
And teachers don't teach this also.
A lot of teachers won't teach you all this, right?
Okay.
Let me just collapse my, all of these functions.
You know, sometimes I used to, you know,
when I used to code, I used to keep everything collapse
because otherwise you can't read where you are in this.
See the component went till what, right?
It, it was very, very lengthy, right?
See what we did in 30 lines.
We wrote 20 lines extra, 32, 52.
We wrote so much extra.
One important thing.
Okay.
One important thing.
What did we do in component will unmount?
Okay.
First of all, let us go to component did mount.
Okay.
Okay.
Let us remove all this.
Let me make this empty, right?
Let's not do an API call here.
Let's not do an API call here, right?
Let me just remove this.
One important thing.
This is the last thing in today's session.
I am feeling like telling you what is the use case
of component will unmount.
Component will unmount is called when, quickly.
Component till a plant is called when.
Component will unmount is called when.
When we are leaving the page, right?
Kind of what is react?
How many pages does our application have?
How many pages does our application have?
Some people are saying three, three pages.
Oh, is it?
Four pages.
Okay.
Some people are saying four pages.
People, you, how many times I have puri?
Since five days, I am talking about SPA, SPA, SPA,
single page application.
It's a single page.
It's a single page, right?
People are saying that we don't know what is like,
how many pages?
Anyways.
So we have just one page in our app.
Now you would say, Akshay, what is this?
It is just a single page.
We are just changing the component, right?
So what will happen is when we are doing all this, right?
When we are doing all this.
So see what happens is, see when we go from home to about page,
or about page to home page,
right?
What is happening is we are changing the page.
Eventually the concept of the page we are changing,
but it is a single page itself, right?
So there are lots of things we need to clear when we are leaving the page.
Lot of things we need to clear when we are leaving the page.
Listen to me once again, like very important concept,
otherwise you won't understand this.
Please, please, right?
We need to clear things up.
What will be clear?
I'll show you important thing.
I'll show you amazing thing.
So suppose if I have a set interval, okay?
Let us create a set interval, set interval.
You know, single page application also have some cons in it.
I'll tell you the cons of having single page application.
Suppose if I have a set interval,
and I said that, okay, do a console log of,
Namaste React, Namaste React OP, right?
After every second.
After every second.
What will happen?
What will happen?
What will happen?
Let me just refresh my page.
See, it started printing Namaste React OP
after each second, right?
After each second, when we load this component,
in component did mount, it started calling
Namaste React OP after each second, right?
It is just calling it.
Now an issue with a single page application is
that if I move to a new page, right?
See, if I move to home page,
if I move to home page, it is still calling.
Did you expect that?
Did you expect that?
It is still calling.
See, this is what I wanted to show you, right?
Not all teachers will teach you all this, right?
Not a lot of people will not teach you all this, right?
Mind is blown, right?
I'll tell you awesome stuff.
This is a single page application.
It started calling.
Now, I'll tell you one more amazing thing, okay?
One more amazing thing.
Suppose if I went to about us page once again, okay?
Now see, now see, this is calling twice, seven, nine, 11.
Can you guess why it is calling twice?
It started two intervals.
It started two intervals, why?
Without our permission, it started two intervals.
This is the problem of a single page application.
Because when you are changing your pages, right?
When you are changing your pages, it is not reloading your page.
Did you understand this?
It is not reloading your page.
It is just changing the components.
It is just rendering.
The react is reconciling.
It is the power of SPA,
but it is a bad thing about single page application also.
See, now it has, now it is calling thrice.
Do you see?
Now it is calling three times.
See, three, three set interval is there now.
Three, bad thing, right?
Bad thing.
Every time I'm coming to this page, it is creating a new set interval.
What if there was a set timeout?
It will again keep set timeout.
And these set timeout will be just hanging in the browser.
After a while, this will blow up your app.
Suppose if you left your code,
if you left your code something like this,
and if there is a user, right?
User often goes to one page from another page.
Think of it.
How much performance loss you are doing?
How much performance loss you are doing?
You know, this is what is maturity of a senior developer.
This makes you a senior developer by knowing that why, what can,
you know, if I don't write console log, right?
If I, if I don't write console log and do something inside it,
you will never get to know that there are like tens of set intervals hanging around.
You will never know.
I'm telling you, right?
You will never know this.
Because this will, this will, this will work the same way.
It will work like you expected.
It will work like you expected, right?
So I wrote this to show you that you become a senior developer when you exactly know
when will this be called?
Why we need to unmount things?
If suppose tomorrow an interviewer asks you a question,
why do we unmount?
Do you know?
Will you be able to give an answer?
People talk about scalable application.
This is a scalable application.
Can you make a scalable application by avoiding this small thing?
No, you need to take care of every single line of code that you write.
You need to take care of it.
This is what makes a difference between a senior developer and a junior developer.
Junior developer will write this code and will go away.
Senior developer will know that I have to, I have created this mess.
I have to clean up.
Senior developer will know that okay, oh, every time I will load my component,
every time my component did mount will be called.
There is a set interval that will be triggered.
There is a new set interval created every time and it will stay.
Right?
So this is an important thing you should know as a senior developer.
Whenever you are finding anyone writing like this,
tell them that you have to clear your interval.
Give them a, give them a coding comment.
Give them a leave a comment on their PR.
I am not approving this.
Okay.
How do you clear this interval now?
How do you clear this interval?
How do you clear this interval?
People are saying I am hungry.
I am also hungry.
Yeah.
Come on.
Let me, let me finish this up.
Please.
How will I clear this interval?
I will use clear interval.
Where will I use clear interval?
Where will I use clear interval?
In my component will unmount.
Now you understand, right?
Give yourself a clap.
If you exactly knew that I will write my clear interval in component will unmount.
If you will write clear interval.
Let's do a clear interval.
But how will I reference that interval over here?
How will I reference it?
How will I reference it?
How will I reference it?
No, not ID, not ref.
How will I reference it?
Variable.
Yes, exactly.
One person is right.
Myuri is right.
Myuri OP.
Myuri is right.
Myuri said this dot.
One more thing to tell you that this is shared between all these functions of this class.
This is shared with this.
This keyword is shared with all the functions, all the methods of this class.
So whenever you write this dot, let's call it as timer.
Okay.
Let's call it as timer.
This dot timer.
So I can use this dot timer over here.
Does that make sense?
I can use this dot timer over here.
Now let us just go and see now.
See if I am refreshing my page, it starts my interval first time.
Let us just go back to home.
It stops.
This is the behavior that we wanted, right?
Amazing.
Awesome, right?
Cool.
This is amazing thing.
This is what you have to do.
This is the proper use case of...
Let me show it to you once again.
Some people are saying show it to us once again.
If I go to my about, what will happen?
Will it start a new set interval?
Yes or no?
Yes or no?
It will start a new set interval.
See, see it started a new set interval.
Now it is running after one second.
Now if I go back to my contact page, it stopped.
This is the exactly same behavior that I was expecting.
So if you are a senior developer, you should know that when you are creating a mess,
you have to clean your mess also.
You are creating a mess.
You have to clean your mess also.
Oh my God, I did not even prepare all this for you.
But it just came in.
Amazing.
You people are amazing.
Now one last thing.
Okay, one last thing.
Just bear with me for one last thing.
Okay.
Now what if I created a set interval over here?
So let me get rid of this set interval.
Okay.
Let me just remove this.
What if I create a set interval over here?
What will happen my dear friends?
What will happen my dear friends?
Just give me a moment.
Let me just remove all this console.
What if I create a set interval inside my use effect?
What will happen my dear friends?
Where is my set interval?
Here it is, right?
What will happen my dear friends?
What if I created this, right?
What will happen my dear friends?
What will happen my dear friends?
It will start the interval.
Let me refresh the page.
Let me go to about page.
It will start the interval.
And it will start printing.
Namaste, React OP.
Now one question I have for you.
Okay, listen to this important question.
If I click on home, will it stop?
Will it stop or not?
Stop, not.
Stop, not.
Stop, not.
Some people are saying yes, it will stop.
Some people are saying no, it won't stop.
If I go to my home page, it is not stopping.
Is it?
Is it stopped?
Let me refresh the page once again.
Let me go back.
Here is once again.
Let me refresh it once again.
Just a moment, just a moment.
Give me one moment, okay?
Give me a moment.
If I start it over here, let me go to my contact page.
It stopped.
Why?
It should not stop.
Because this is coming from,
this is coming from enough dose for today.
I think enough dose for today.
So basically we have not rendered this component onto our page, right?
This profile should come from our,
so basically I have to render my profile-based functional component.
So that component is not even there.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Understood, right?
Cut, yeah, okay.
Now this is, now this code is there in the call.
Now tell me, will this stop or not?
Will this stop or not?
Now see, now this console log.
Are, why is it not refreshing?
Okay, I'm on contact with, sorry, sorry, sorry.
It is coming from profile.js.
This is the functional component.
Now, now will this stop?
Yes or no?
Will this stop?
Now people are so confused.
Oh my God, actually tell me very fast.
You know, now I can like close the session right now
and you will curse me.
That actually, no, I want my answer right now.
I want my answer.
I'll tell you.
Let us just see.
If I go to my contact page, it won't stop.
Why will it stop?
Why will it stop?
It won't stop because we are not cleaning up things over here.
We are not cleaning up things over here, right?
We are not cleaning up things over here.
In fact, it will behave the same way, right?
If I go to my contact page, come back over here.
Now see, it happens to me very fast.
Now, if I go to contact once again, load about us once again, see.
Now it is happening like, see.
So, how will you destroy this in your functional component?
Lot of React developers don't know this.
You know?
You know?
You know, I did not tell you at that moment.
You know, at that moment when I was teaching use effect,
I did not tell you this because I was waiting for this moment.
Now you will appreciate this moment even more.
I have a very different style of teaching, you know.
Sometimes I don't tell everything in one go.
I tell you slowly, right?
So, there is something known as return inside.
You can return a function from use effect.
This function is basically called when you are unmounting this component.
Take that up.
Knowledge.
Amazing, right?
This function is called when you are unmounting it.
Oh, bhai.
So, you will clear your...
Okay, let us see what is happening in this.
So, okay, let us just remove this set interval for now.
Okay, I'll write...
I'll play with you once again, okay?
I have my console.log render.
Okay, I have my console.log render.
I have my console.log use effect.
Use effect.
And I have my console.log use effect return.
What will be the first thing that will be called?
What will be the first thing that will be called?
Render.
Render?
Sorry. Sorry, I got cold.
I have been speaking since three and a half...
Three hours and 15 minutes now.
My God.
Even I joined 15 minutes before.
Three hours and a half, three and a half hours.
But anyways, let me finish this.
Let us finish this quickly.
This is the last thing.
This is the last thing, okay?
We call render.
What is the second thing that will be called?
Use effect.
And the third thing will be use effect return.
Use effect return, okay?
My class is about to end.
Let me extend the class by...
I am extending the class by 10 minutes, okay?
Okay.
Cool.
So, use effect return.
Now, let me just see.
Now, does this make sense?
Render, use effect.
Where is my use effect return?
Where is my use effect return?
Where is my use effect return?
After I leave my page, exactly, you people are right.
See, now you understood clearly.
Will you beat your interviewer now?
I want you all...
You guys are on fire in the interview.
I mean, interviewer...
If an interviewer asks you use effect, right?
You screw the interviewer, right?
You screw the interviewer because you know almost everything about it now.
Screw the interviewer.
You should be fire in your interviews.
You should be fire in your interviews.
Watch this session once again.
This is kind of the unmounting phase.
This is the unmounting phase in...
Where will I clear my set interval?
You know, today, if you want to...
If you want to go, go ahead and ask your friends.
They won't know that, okay, this is being called if I change my page.
Okay, first question is that they won't even know that, okay,
this set interval is new once again, right?
And forget about cleaning.
Forget about cleaning.
Okay, so how will I clean it?
So I'll basically use a constant timer
and I will just do a clear timer, clear interval.
Does this make sense?
It is the easy stuff.
Once you understand this...
Understand this concept properly, everything will make sense to you.
Everything.
Let's go to about us page.
See, about us page is rendered.
It is printing Namaste React OP again and again.
If we go to contact page, it stops, right?
If I go to about, it starts once again.
Expected behavior.
Amazing.
If I go to contact, now tell me, do you love react or not?
You know, you will love react.
And did you understand class-based component or not?
Did you understand these life cycle methods or not?
This is the main thing, which I wanted to tell you.
You know, there were, there were...
Listen to me once again, once again, just ending the session.
When react was developed.
So see how many life cycle methods are there?
One, two, three, four, five.
We have studied about five life cycle methods.
Five life cycle methods.
But when react was created, there were even more life cycle methods.
Even more life cycle methods, which have been deprecated long back.
This is react version 16.4 and above.
This is react version 16.4 and above.
If we go to react 16, 13, there used to be different cycle methods.
And see, if I click on this right, so less common life cycle methods.
See this.
Now you will appreciate the pain taken by the older react community, guys.
It will be even more mess.
Okay, if you had to study all this, why react is very,
you know, why react is very popular?
Because react, when, you know, when react was building,
they built all these life cycle things.
But they realized that if we continue doing this,
developer will stop writing react.
That is why react came up with a better way of doing it,
functional component, hooks.
And since then react picked up again, picked up once again.
React is amazing.
People ask me, Akshay, do you like react or angular?
I like react so much.
I don't know about angular.
I have not worked on angular much.
But I love react because I see that react has taken severe steps,
very important steps to make the developer experience very fast.
Right?
React, react experience, developer experience very good.
And it has done amazing stuff.
That is why I bet on react.
And the way react matures, it will mature even more.
In react 19, they are coming up with even more better API.
Even more better things to do.
Okay. Awesome.
So if you want to, if you are a UI developer,
then learning react can accelerate your career.
But you should know the internals of react.
This is the namaste.
React, my dear friends.
Now you would say, Akshay, what about this?
So let me tell you, if you are interested,
if you really want to dive deep in, read about this.
Read about this.
Otherwise, in your interviews,
you can just study whatever I taught you.
Click on this and forget about everything.
You should be very good at this.
This is non-negotiable.
You can skip these extra ones.
These are very not used and most of them are deprecated.
Okay.
Okay.
Just study this.
Your homework is to whatever I did, right?
I was doing console log at every life cycle method
and playing with it here and there.
This is what you have to do.
Cool.
Awesome.
Homework understood.
And there are two, two more things that we studied.
Two more research topics.
First research topic was,
first research topic was super props.
Why do we write super props and constructor props?
Second research topic.
Second research topic.
Async.
Async component did mount.
And why can I not use async in the use effect callback?
Okay.
In my use effect callback, where is my use effect?
In this callback, I can't make this async.
If I make this async, right?
See, react will complaint.
React will, react throws this error.
You have to, you have to find the reason why react is giving up.
It has something to do.
Right.
Okay.
My dear friends, amazing stuff today.
This is what I wanted.
I covered so much more than what I planned for today's session.
Hope you would have enjoyed the session.
So this was the clip.
I hope you would have opened up your eyes
and would have seen what we used to do earlier
and how we write code now.
And you would have loved this episode.
Thank you so much for watching.
See you in the next one.
