FILE: Episode 08 - Let's get Classy.part001.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Welcome back to Namaste React, this is episode 8, let's get classy.
As you would have already guessed it, in this episode, we will be studying about class-based
components.
Okay, so before I start this session, I want to tell you a little bit things about class-based
components.
So, first thing that class-based components is a older way of creating components inside
React.
So in the latest way, in the 7 episodes which I have taught before this episode, we were
using functional components, isn't it?
So that is the new and latest way of writing code, that is the new way of creating components.
But class-based components is an older way of creating components.
If you are building a project today, a React project, you would never need to use
class-based components.
But then, you might ask the question that why Akshay, why are you teaching us then, right?
So let me tell you that class-based components are very important to know.
Why I say this?
Because first reason is, it is asked a lot in interviews.
If you are giving interviews, you will be asked class-based components a lot, why?
Because a lot of companies are working on older projects which are already using
class-based components, right?
They are not using the latest of React.
So I don't want you to fail in interviews.
I don't want any of my students to fail in interviews.
The second reason is that if you know class-based components, right?
Understanding of React will become very, like very strong, right?
Because see, you know, functional components is a new way of writing code.
But if you know that earlier, why, how we used to write code, your understanding
of today's concepts will become even more stronger.
In this episode, you will get that, right?
You will get to know how painful it was earlier to write code and now how easy it is to write
code with functional components, okay?
So one reason is that and the third reason is that it's amazing, right?
It will exactly tell you that how React lifecycle works, how React components, like, render
onto the webpage and then what is the beauty of React components, like it, you know, it
is more on a deeper level.
So without wasting any more time, let's get started with the class-based components.
Let's go back to our project, Namaste React, and let me open this project in our VS code,
right?
We have our Visual Studio code, we have our app.js and let us just start our project.
What is the command for starting our project?
Yep, you're right.
Let's start this NPM start, right?
If I do NPM start, we have our project running over here on localhost1234.
Let's go to the browser, here is our localhost1234.
Let me refresh the page, yep, this is our project.
So now we are going to see that how we can create class-based components today, right?
So let's go back to our code.
So what I'll do is, okay, so here we had about us page, right?
So let us use this about us page, and here we will experiment with class-based components,
okay?
So what I'll do is, now I will just create another component over here, and that will
be a class-based component, got it?
So in our about section, so you know, what I'm going to develop today is, in our
about us section, right?
In our companies page, you must have seen a about page in the company's website,
right?
Where in the about section, they give the information about team members, isn't it?
So let me make similar kind of stuff, right?
Just to showcase and just to demonstrate class-based components, okay?
So in our about us page, we will show information of the team members, right?
This is a feature which I would like to add, that I will over here show the, like show
the information of team members, isn't it?
So and I will fetch the data of these team members from GitHub, got it?
So basically what I'll do is, I'll just showcase, like I just fetched data from
GitHub APIs and will showcase the team members information over here, right?
So maybe like I'll just fetch data from my GitHub profile, my photo, my name, my
location and all that stuff and will show in the about us page, right?
It's a very simple feature, right?
That we are going to develop and we will be using class-based components for
developing that, right?
So in the about us page, right?
Over here below, I will show basically a team member's card, right?
Kind of like a card for each team member, right?
So let us just create that card component.
So now what I'll do is, first of all, I will make this component as a
functional component and then I will convert it to class-based components, okay?
That way you will understand it much more better, okay?
That's kind of my style of teaching, right?
So this H2 tag, I will create a user component, right?
This is the user component.
This user means the team member, right?
In the about us page.
So this user component and first of all, I will develop the same component in
functional component way, right?
I will write a functional component for this and then I will show you how to
modify that to class-based components, okay?
I will show you the like relation between the two.
I will show you the comparison so that you beautifully understand it, right?
That's how I teach this concept, okay?
And you would love it, right?
So let's create a user component, first of all.
That will be a functional component.
How do you create a component in a functional way, right?
User component, okay?
Let's call it as user.js, okay?
So user.js and now what is a functional component at the end of the day, right?
It's just a normal JavaScript function, isn't it?
Let me create a user component.
User is equals to I'm creating an arrow function.
So a functional component is basically nothing but a function that returns a piece of JSX,
isn't it?
So over here, I will have a div and then this is basically a card, right?
This is basically kind of like a let me give it a class name as user card, okay?
User card, okay?
So this is a user card and then in this user card, in the about a section, let's
add few details, right?
Name of user or maybe location of that user or something like that, right?
So let's add it, H2 and then basically let me give it name and then name is Akshay, okay?
Name is Akshay and then maybe like let's say H3 of a location, right?
Location of maybe let's give it as Dehradun, right?
And let me also add some information about my contact information, right?
Contact information, maybe basically maybe my Twitter handle or something, right?
Let me add my Twitter handle, right?
So basically it's about us user card, right?
Kind of a card.
So let me create this.
So this is a functional component and what do we do?
We will then export our component, export default user, right?
So that's how I create my functional component, isn't it?
This is our functional component, our user component and how do I show this component in
my about us page?
I will just import it, isn't it?
This is our about us component, right?
So over here, I will just import my user card, right?
Import user from dot slash user, isn't it?
So we have this user from our user file, okay?
So now I will use this user component over here, right?
So let us see how it looks on our web page.
So over here, we have got this, right?
Name, location, contact us, okay?
So let me just decorate it so that it looks like a card, isn't it?
So over here, can you see, right?
We have this name, Akshay, location, contact, right?
So let me just decorate it, right?
Let me put some CSS so that it looks like a card, right?
So let's put some CSS, let's go to our index.css.
Over here, I'll like just write quickly some CSS for my user card, right?
So we have this user card, let me give it a padding of maybe padding of 10 px, okay?
Let me give it a padding of 10 px and then let me also give it a border, right?
Border of one px solid black, got it?
So basically, we have got this card, right?
So now we have got this card, this is a functional component.
This card is coming from this user js.
Now what I'll do is, I will now convert this user component.
What if we have to write this user component using class-based component, right?
Okay, so for that, let me create a component.
How do you create a component?
Let me create one other file, right?
Let's call it as user class, okay?
Because a class-based component, so I'm just using this convention.
You don't need to actually, but then I'm just following this convention user class.
So whenever I say user class, it's a class-based component.
The normal user is a functional component, got it?
So now I will use a, I will write the code for my class-based component.
So for reference, okay, let me just put this user file on the right side, okay?
In this half, and here is my class-based component, okay?
So now watch clearly how I am writing code for my class-based component.
First thing, okay?
Now listen to me very carefully.
First things first, one question I have is, what is functional component at the
end of the day?
At the end of the day, what is a functional component?
It's a normal JavaScript function, isn't it?
What is a class-based component?
It's a normal JavaScript class, got it?
So it's a normal JavaScript class.
Let me just show you how we can create this class-based component and what is a class
component, right?
So when I say class, so how do you create a class in JavaScript?
Class keyword and then the name of the component.
What is the name of this component?
User class, okay?
User class.
And then we will, to make this a component, what we will do is, we will extend, so I will
extend, right, extends react.component, okay?
So this is the way for react to tell that this is a class-based component.
So what you will have to do, extends react.component, okay?
So now when you do this, this becomes a class-based component.
Let me repeat it once again, you use a keyword class, name of the component and then write extends
react.component.
So basically this extend react component will make react know that this is a class-based
component, okay?
So now react will start tracking it, got it?
So this is the way we create a class-based component and what do we do over here is?
What do we do over here is remember this is very important that now I will have
a render method inside over here, right?
I will have a render method inside over here, right?
And this render method will return a piece of JSX which will be displayed onto the UI,
okay?
So render method will return some piece of JSX, got it?
So this returns some piece of JSX, right?
So similarly, if you compare it with class-based, if you compare it with this functional
component, right?
So what is a functional component?
It's a function that returns some piece of JSX, right?
Returns some piece of JSX, class-based component is a class which has a render method which
returns some piece of JSX, that is the difference, right?
So just like we returned this JSX over here, similarly I can copy this whole return and
I can just put this over here, right?
I can just put this over here, right?
And okay, so see the difference, see the difference between the two.
So this functional component is, let me repeat it once again, so the functional component
is basically a function that returns some piece of JSX.
A class-based component is a class which extends react.component and it has a render
method that returns some piece of JSX, okay?
The only, the major difference over here is that we have this render method which
returns some piece of JSX.
And this is the JSX which will be converted into HTML and rendered onto the webpage, right?
This will be converted to HTML and will be displayed onto the webpage, okay?
So this is how you write class-based component.
Now remember one important thing, what is this react.component?
This react.component is basically a class which is given to us by react and user
class is inheriting some properties from it, right?
So basically this react.component is given to us by react.
That means we will have to import it from somewhere, right?
Where is this react.component will come from?
So basically this react.component will come from, from react.
Got it?
So important thing to notice, this react.component is a class which is there inside react, right?
This react package, right?
This JavaScript react package, it has react and we extend react.component over here like
this and then we will just render this, render this piece of JSX, right?
This is how we write class-based component which is equivalent to this functional component
over here, this functional user component.
And now similarly, just like our functional component, we will also export this component,
right?
Also export default and then user class from this file, right?
And now let us just see how we can use this in our about us page, okay?
Let us just see how we can use this in our about us page.
In our about us page, what I will do is I will just import my user class, right?
User class.
We will do it exactly how we used to do for functional components.
There is no difference in importing, exporting, right?
From our user class.
Now we have this user class.
What I will do is I will just below over here in this user, I will just also add a user
class, got it?
So user is there and user class and let me just save my file, go back to our browser
and if you will see, see this, we have these two cards.
So this first card is our functional component.
The second card is our class-based component.
Was this hard?
No, my dear friends.
It's not at all hard.
It's just a change of a little syntax, got it?
Let me quickly revise it once again.
So in this functional component, it's kind of like a function which returns some piece
of JSX, right?
So this function, arrow function was returning some piece of JSX, isn't it?
So in this class-based component, you have to remember few things.
First of all, you make a JavaScript class.
The name of the component is coming over here and you extends it from react.component
and this react.component comes from our react library, got it?
This class has a function, this class has a method render, right?
This render method returns some piece of JSX, that's all, right?
And then we export our class and we use it the same way like we used to use our normal
functional component just like this, got it?
So this is what is a class-based component and this is how you write a equivalent functional
component and an equivalent class-based component for a functional component.
It was easy, right?
So now let's dive in a little more into it.
So now I will show you how we can pass props into this component, right?
So we had this functional component, right?
How do we use to pass props inside it, right?
So how do we use to pass props inside this functional component, right?
So we used to pass props over here like this, right?
So suppose I want to pass this name and location from my props, right?
Over here, I want to send names as a prop, right?
So let me just send you this information, right?
Name, let me give it passing this props, right?
This is a functional component, right?
This is function, right?
So how do I pass in this props inside functional component like this?
And how do I receive it over here in this functional component?
How do I receive it over here in this functional component?
I used to do something like this, right?
I can write props over here.
And over here, if I write my props.name, props.name, I can access it, isn't it?
This is how we used to do.
If I save this file, go back to my browser.
So here we have got this Akshay Saini function, isn't it?
So this is coming from this props, OK?
And what we can do is sometimes we also destructure it like this, isn't it?
You would have seen it, right?
Instead of props.name, I can just destructure it on the fly, right?
There are various ways to write it.
I can write it like this as well.
Over here, I am passing name and we are getting this as a parameter.
This is this name is a parameter, right?
This is going as an argument to this function, isn't it?
As a props, right?
So this is how we used to do in functional component.
Now I want to show you that how I can do the same thing inside my class-based component.
So suppose if you want to pass a prop name over here in my class-based component, right?
Let me just pass in over here Akshay Saini and now let me write over here class, right?
So this is coming from my class-based component.
This is going inside the class-based component.
Now, how do I receive this component inside my class-based component?
What is that component?
Here is my user class.
Now how will I receive it over here?
How will I receive it over here?
Listen to me very carefully, right?
So in this class, we will create a constructor.
This class will have a constructor and this constructor will now receive this props,
right?
This constructor will now receive this props, right?
Over here and over here, listen to me very carefully, we have to do one more thing.
So we will receive this props over here, over here in the constructor and we will also write
super props, okay?
We will have to use this keyword super props, right?
We will have to use this keyword super props and now if I do a console log over here,
right?
console log over here of props, so I will receive these props over here in my user class, okay?
Let me go to the browser and show it to you.
So here you can see, see this.
In user class, I have got these props over here, got it?
I have got these props over here, got it inside my constructor.
So let me repeat it once again in functional component.
If we pass in like this, we get inside this functional component as an argument, right?
So over here, we will get name, I can use it like this, right?
So in the class miss component, we get it over here inside this constructor and we
definitely have to use super props.
This is important, right?
So this is the time for your homework.
Now you would ask me, Akshay, why we write super props?
Can I avoid writing it?
No, you cannot avoid writing it.
If you don't write super props, it will throw an error.
So you will always have to write super props over here.
This is your homework.
Go research, do your research and find out why do we always have to write super props?
This is your homework.
I can, you know, I can tell you in one line, right?
But I want you to do some effort, right?
Go back, go on the internet, just find out why do we write super props?
You will get the answer in just one or two Google search, but I want you to make that
effort and just brush up your underlying concepts, right?
Okay?
So please go ahead.
I will give you two homeworks in this episode, right?
Two research homework, two homeworks, right?
The first one is why do we write super props?
Note it down in your notebook and then remember this.
Now once I have received my name inside this, inside my constructor over here,
how do I use the name over here?
Right?
Inside my render function.
So over here, you will have to do something like this.props.name, okay?
You will always have to use this keyword inside your class, right?
So that this props can be accessed anywhere inside my class.
Got it?
So I am giving you a hint.
So because we need to use it over here as this.props.name, that's why we kind
of use this super props.
Go back and research it yourself.
I am just giving you a hint, right?
But now this props can be accessed anywhere inside my class using this.props.name or whatever
you must have passed in from your parent component, right?
So now let me go back to the browser and show it to you if it works or not.
Let's go back.
If I see a name has been replaced from here, right?
A name has been replaced from here.
So let me repeat it once again.
If you have to pass in props inside a functional component, you do it like this and you receive
it like this, right?
Over here, you receive it like this and you can use it like this.
In the class-based component, the way of passing is same, right?
But when you receive it, where is my class-based component?
Here it is.
When you receive it, you receive it inside the constructor and then you can use it like
this.props.name.
Remember to use super as well.
So now let me tell you an important thing.
Whenever this class is initialized, right?
This constructor is called, right?
Whenever you create a, you know, instance of a class, right?
Not invoked, right?
Functions are invoked.
But whenever the instance of this class, this particular user class is created, a
constructor is, you know, a constructor is called.
This constructor is called, isn't it?
This is a normal fundamental of classes, right?
So whenever the class, a new instance of a class is created, this constructor is called
and you know what happens?
This props is extracted over here, over here like this.
And now you can use this props anywhere in your code if you use this super props
like this.props.name.
Remember to do this, okay?
So this is how you get props from the parent component, okay?
So now if you have to pass in more props, you can pass in more props as well, right?
I can pass location as well.
Location is equals to Dharadun, right?
Or let me write Dharadun class, right?
So that you can say.
So we have this location Dharadun class.
Why it is complaining?
Because it's piece of JSX.
I have to give this, I have to give this over here, okay?
Over here.
Got it.
So we have this location as Dharadun class.
Now I will use it over here.
We have got this props.
I can use it this.props.props.location.
Got it.
We have got this.
If I go over here, we have got this Dharadun class over here.
And if I log this console, we have got this object, right?
This is the props object.
So basically what happens is all these, all these you will pass over here, right?
Let me just show it to you.
All these props you have passed in like this will be combined into a single object.
And that object will be, will be passed over here in this props, right?
Remember this props.
Got it.
So now, so now we can use this.props.name, this.props.location.
One more thing we can do is we can destructure it also, right?
This looks ugly to use this.props.name, this.props.location.
So I can destructure it.
How do you destructure it?
Very simple.
I can just do const, right?
And I can extract name and my location, right?
This is a better way to write code.
Location from this.props.
Got it.
So I've got my name and location.
Now I don't want to write this.props every time.
I can just use name and location like this.
Got it.
So this is how you extract your props and it will work.
This is how my class-based component receives some props
from its parent.
Got it.
So let's take a break over here.
Let's take a break, go back to your code, right?
Go back to your project, implement this, right?
Get make two cards, right?
Write a functional component first of all, you know?
You must have already got used to of writing
this functional component like this,
a functional returning some piece of JSX.
But this time you have to create a class-based component
also just like I did, right?
User class and use it, pass in some props
and see if you can get this props over here or not, right?
See this once again, go back, do it yourself in your code
and then we will come back once again very soon.
Welcome back, my friends.
Now I'll show you how we can create state
inside our class-based component, right?
State variables, local variables inside our class-based
component.
Isn't it?
Creating state variables is an important thing in React,
isn't it?
So we need to create state variables
and update our UI when the state changes.
We do that a lot in our functional components, isn't it?
So let me first show it to you.
Remember, how do we create it inside
our functional component?
We use a hook, you are absolutely right.
We use a hook which is known as use state, right?
So over here, right?
This is our functional component, okay?
So we create a hook, right?
Import use state, right?
Import use state from our React
and we create a hook like this, right?
This is how we create a state variable.
Let us just create a dummy state variable, right?
So I can create a state variable like this, right?
We have this array and we write,
suppose the state variable name is count, right?
Count and then over here is use state
and then we used to give a default value inside it, right?
Let me give a count a default value of zero, okay?
So over here, we do it like this, isn't it?
Let me just show it to you and how do we use it?
How do we use this count over here, right?
How do we use this count over here?
Let me create a h1 tag for count, got it?
So count is basically count, right?
So if I have to use it, so count, got it?
So this is how we use it, right?
This is a state variable count
and we have this zero over here, got it?
So this is count is equals to zero over here, right?
So now we will see how we can create this state variable
inside our class over here, class component, okay?
Let me get this functional component also over here, right?
So here is a class-based component.
I will now show you how you can create a state variable
just like we created over here, right?
Using use state, how we can create inside class.
But let me tell you, functional component,
this hooks is a very new concept inside React.
Earlier, there used to be no hooks,
there used to be no functional component, right?
So there was an old way of creating state
that we are going to see over here now, right?
And let me show it to you how to create state.
So state was created whenever a class instance was created.
So whenever you create an instance of a class,
whenever the, so what do you mean
by when you are creating an instance of a class, okay?
I'll tell you, you know, when we have this,
listen to me very carefully,
there is a very small difference between them, right?
So when I say I am rendering a function,
rendering a functional component,
what does it mean basically?
So basically on your web page,
if there is a functional component, it loads, right?
So that means you are mounting that function.
You are mounting that functional component.
You are kind of like calling that function.
You are invoking that functional component.
Got it?
So whenever I say invoking a functional component,
that means you are loading or mounting that function
onto that web page.
Got it?
That is known as mounting or invoking a function.
When I say you are creating an instance
of a class-based component,
this is my vocabulary, I teach it like this, right?
When I say you are, you know,
loading a class-based component means
you are creating an instance of this class.
Got it?
Let me repeat it once again, listen to me very carefully.
When I say I am loading a class-based component
on our web page, that means I am creating
an instance of that class.
Got it?
So basically, when I am loading this class-based
component onto the web page,
that means I am creating a new instance of this class
and giving it, right, and giving it some props, right?
So whenever you create an instance of a class,
this constructor is called.
And this is the best place to receive props
and this is the best place to create state variables.
Got it?
This is the best place to create state variables.
So if you have to create a state variable
for your class-based component,
so you will create it over here.
In the functional component, we use useStateHook.
Earlier, there were no hooks.
There was a way to create state variables
and that was using something known as this.state, okay?
So this state is a reserved word over here.
So you use this.state and then this state
is basically a big, whole object, okay?
Big, whole object which contains state variables.
So just like we had count over there,
how do I create a count here?
I can create a count
and how do you give it initial value like this?
Got it?
So let me show it to you in our functional component,
just like we did count useState0, right?
We gave initial value over here, count here.
Similarly, we can give this.state
and we can write count with zero over here.
Got it?
So this is how we create a state variable
inside our class component.
How do I use my count over here?
How will I use my count over here?
Let me create a h1 tag over here also.
You know why I am showing you functional component
in that class-based component?
Why?
Because your understanding will be very clear.
You know, a lot of people start teaching
class-based components in the first class itself, right?
In the, I could have taught class-based component
in the first class itself,
but I would have just confused you.
I would have just confused you.
This is the right time for you
to know class-based component,
because now you know how we write code
in functional component.
It is very easy for you to pick up like this.
This is my teaching style.
That's why I prepared my curriculum like this, okay?
I introduced class-based component in episode eight, right?
Because I don't want class-based component
to be the primary way of writing code for you.
I want you to be,
I want you to write functional component always.
I am teaching a class-based component
mostly for interviews
or if you are working on some legacy project, right?
So you should not be clueless that,
oh my God, Akshay did not teach us class-based components.
No, you should know how to write class-based components
because, you know, React was built like this.
When React was built,
there used to be class-based components always, right?
So you should know the beauty,
how React was like doing things earlier, isn't it?
From the foundation itself.
So let me just show it to you
how we can use this count over here now
instead of giving you a lot of ground, isn't it?
So how do you use it?
Count, right?
Count and then, oh, I wrote these,
I wrote the wrong spelling over here, right?
And then how do I use it over here?
This.state.count, got it?
This.state.count.
So just like we use this.probs.name,
we can use this.state.count.
If I save it, go back to my browser,
see count is equals to zero, okay?
This count is equals to zero is a state variable now.
Got it?
So I can also destructure it if I want to, right?
Let me show you how to destructure it.
I can just do something like this, right?
I can pull out count, right?
From this.state, got it?
I can pull out count and I can do this.state.
If I remove it from here, this will work, right?
This is great, isn't it?
Now, suppose if I had to create two,
if I had to create two state variables,
how do I do it in functional component
and class component?
This is an important thing, right?
There's a subtle difference between the two.
If I have to create, suppose second count variable, okay?
Let me create a count two, okay?
Count two and let me give it maybe initial value of one,
okay?
How do I use it?
I can just use it like this, right?
Count two and I can use it count two, got it?
Count and count two.
This is how we do it in a functional component, right?
This is how we do it, right?
You already know it.
We can create as many state variables we want to.
Now, let me show it to you.
How do we do the same thing inside our
class-based component?
So in our class-based component,
we have this state, this object, right?
So you must be thinking we will do something like this.
No, my dear friends, this is a wrong way to do.
Instead, the state variable is a big object
which contains all these state variables
that you will create.
This is an important difference.
This state is basically a big object
which will contain all,
which will contain all these state variables.
So if I have to create count two,
I will create it inside over here, right?
If I have to create it, right?
And let me give it a default value of two.
So if I have to create count two,
I will create it inside this state, this dot state.
This is a big object
which holds all the state variables.
Over here, we created count and count two like this.
You state.
Over here, we do it in the same object.
Got it?
And let me tell you one more thing.
In our functional component, behind the scenes, right?
Behind the scenes, React uses a big one object
to keep the state, right?
For us, when we are writing, we write this two times, right?
We write this two times.
But behind the scene,
React makes it as a one big object only
and we put in all the state variables like this, right?
Behind the scenes, React is doing that for you, right?
The syntax is this,
but behind the scenes, it works like this.
So basically, this is how we do it
in class-based components.
How do I use it?
I use it the same way.
Just like we have this count,
I can destructure it,
count two, or I can directly write
this dot state dot count two over here, right?
Let me just use count two over here, count two,
and then let me give it count two and save it.
And if I go back, we have this count zero
and count two two, right?
So this is coming from our class-based component.
So this is how we create multiple state variables
inside your class-based components, okay?
Now we will see how we can update these state variables, right?
We should know a way to update these state variables, right?
Let's take a quick break now, implement this,
and when I come back from the break,
we will just see how we can update these state variables.
Got it?
Do this in your code and let's come back.
Welcome back, my friends.
Now we will see how we can update
these state variables, isn't it?
So if I have to update these state variables
inside our functional component, how we used to do?
We had one more method, right?
Set count, right?
We did something like this and we used to do a set count.
We used to call this set count
and update these count variables, isn't it?
I won't show it like this over here
in the functional component.
You already know it, right?
But let me show it to you how we can do this
inside our class variables.
Got it?
How we can actually do this inside our class variables.
Now, if this UI is looking very messy, right?
Let me get rid of this functional component first of all, okay?
Let me get rid of this functional components.
I have shown you the difference
between functional component and class-based component
and the difference in the syntax, right?
Let me get rid of this, right?
Because it is just making things very complex, right?
So let me just get rid of this for now, right?
Let me just get rid of this, right?
We just have a class-based component now, okay?
Now, I'll show you how we can update these count variables, right?
How we can update these state variables, got it?
So we have this state count zero, right?
Let me just pull it a little down, right?
And I want to update these variables.
How we can update these variables, right?
So let me just create a button
and if I click on that button, this count will increase, okay?
Let's build that, got it?
So let me also get rid of this count two, right?
We just need one count variable.
That would be enough, isn't it?
Let me just get rid of this count two.
So we just have this count
so that it does not messes up our code, right?
It was not looking clean.
So now we have this count variable.
Let me just get rid of this count two also, got it?
So now I'll show you, if I click on a button,
how do we update our count variable, right?
For that, let me just add a button
and we will add an onClickHandler to that button as well, right?
We have an onClickHandler.
So if I click on this button,
I should just do something, right?
We will just increase the count.
Let me give the name of the button as count increase, right?
Count increase, got it?
So if I click on this count increase button,
so we have this onClickButton
and we have a clickHandler, I will add it over here.
If I click on this button, the count should increase, right?
What should happen if I click on that button?
I will define it now, but let me see.
So if I click on this count increase button,
this count should increase.
What logic will I write?
So this onClickHandler takes a callback function, right?
This takes a callback function
and when I click on this button,
what I'll do is I will update my state variable.
I will update my state variable, right?
So I will update this state count.
How will I update this?
How will I update this?
A lot of people must be thinking
that I'll do something like this.
This.state.count to count is equals to
this.state.count plus plus, right?
This.state.count plus one.
Can I do it like this?
Does that make sense?
If I click on that button,
this.state.count is equals to this.state.count plus one.
It will increase by one.
No, this is wrong.
You cannot do like this, right?
This is the mistake which a lot of people make.
That is why I wanted to make a mistake and show it to you.
This is not how you update the count, right?
So we don't update the state variables directly, okay?
We will never modify our state variables
using equal to and putting some value, right?
This is an important thing to note.
A lot of times, a lot of new React developers
make this mistake while using class-based components.
Never do this.
Write it down in your notebook.
Write it down in your notes.
Never update state variables.
State variables directly.
Never ever do this.
Never ever do this.state.count is equal to something.
It will not update, right?
It will not update.
It will create some inconsistencies in your program.
Never directly update your state variables.
What is a way to update them, right?
Similar to this, right?
And if you remember in the functional component also,
you never used to do count is equals to something, right?
We used to have a set count, right?
We used to have a set count
and this set count is a function
where we used to pass an updated value, isn't it?
Suppose if I have to change the value of zero to one, right?
We used to do set count one, isn't it?
Similarly, we will over here not update it directly.
Never update state variables directly.
How do I update my count then?
So React gives you access to an important,
React gives you access to an important function
which is known as this.setState, right?
This.statState and you can use this did.statState
anywhere inside my class, right?
This.statState, setState, this.setState.
So we have this this.statState
and over here in this this.statState,
we will pass in an object.
This object will contain the updated value
of your state variables.
This object will contain the updated value
of your state variables, right?
How do I update it?
I will write count and now I will modify my count.
I will write this.stat.count plus one, got it?
I won't modify this this.stat.count directly
but I will use this function this.setState, right?
And I will pass in this object over here, right?
And this.stat.count plus one, got it?
Now, if I go back, if I refresh my page,
if I click on count increase, serious.
The count is getting increased, amazing, isn't it?
So basically, if I have to increase my count,
I will do it like this, got it?
And whenever this state variable will update the count,
this will re-render.
React will re-render the component
and it will just, whenever I'm clicking on this,
React is re-rendering the component
and it is just changing the count value.
Let me show it to you over here in the elements, right?
If I go to my count variable, right?
React is quickly re-rendering things up, right?
Where is it? Count 28?
If I increase the count, serious.
This count is getting changed, isn't it over here?
So basically, React is updating,
React is re-rendering this component
and it is just changing this portion of the HTML, got it?
So this is how you update your state variables.
What if I had to update count two also?
How do I update my count two?
Suppose you can do it like this, right?
You can do it like this, like this, right?
So some people, you know,
some people do it like this, okay?
Let me tell you the wrong way of doing it.
Some people create this.
If we have to update the count two,
some people will think I will do it like this.
No, don't create it again and again.
You can batch it up.
You can batch these two things up
and you can update both of them together
if you have to update together.
Generally, you won't get a case
to update both things together,
but if you have to do it,
you can do something like this also, right?
So how it works behind the scenes is,
let me tell you how it works behind the scenes.
Whenever React will see, okay, right?
The button was clicked
and this dot set state was called.
So React will take this object
and will find out what over here.
Suppose if there are so many counts, right?
Suppose if there was count three,
there was count four, right?
We had count three, we had count four,
we had like 10 different state variables, right?
Suppose if there were 10 different state variables,
but if you are sending just two,
two variables inside this object,
it will only update the two
without touching all of them.
Important thing to note,
the state variable is a big object, isn't it?
So what we'll do?
Suppose if you have just sent count
and count two over here,
so React will not touch the value of others,
it will just update the value whatever is passed
from this set state, right?
I want to tell you these small things
because this is very important, right?
If I am sending, right?
If I am sending just count over here,
so it will only update my count
and it will not touch the value
of any other variables over here.
Got it?
This is some small things,
take down the note
and why I'm telling you these nitty gritty things
because it will help you in your interviews.
You know, some interviews are smart
and then they will just, you know,
they will just try to ask you random questions.
You should know how it works behind the scenes
and nobody, you will not fail in your interview.
Nobody can challenge your knowledge
if you know these basic things
that how it is working behind the scenes, right?
In the behind the scenes, this is the object
and it will update only the portion of this object, right?
It will kind of find the diff
between the two objects, now you understand?
Whenever this onclick button is clicked, right?
React will retrigger that reconciliation, right?
Reconciliation process.
It will find the diff of that object,
it will update the state variables,
it will re-render the component.
That's how React will work.
Amazing, isn't it?
So basically this is how we update these state variables
and now take a break,
apply this in your code, right?
Apply this in your code and in your project
and then we will come back
and then I will show you
when you update these state variables,
how basically React re-renders?
What is that render cycle?
What is the life cycle of this class-based component?
You will be amazed, you know?
This is one of the most important questions, right?
In the interviews that what are React component
life cycle methods, right?
In the class-based components
and a lot of interviews ask this,
I will tell you everything in detail,
I will tell you everything in depth,
come back and we will continue with this class
and take a break, implement this in your code
and come back very soon.
See you once again.
Welcome back, my dear friends.
Now I'll show you what is the life cycle
of this React class-based component.
Got it?
Very important interview question
and I'll show you basically
how this React class-based component,
you know, when I write this code,
how this component is put up in the webpage, right?
How this component is loaded in the webpage
or we use the word mounted on the webpage, okay?
How this class-based component is mounted, right?
How this component is mounted, right?
So I will just show you what is that life cycle,
what are these life cycle methods?
Got it?
So we have already seen what is props,
what is state variables,
how do you update your state variables?
Hope you would have understood that.
Now I will show you the cycle,
how it is put onto the webpage
or how it is mounted onto the webpage, right?
Into your application.
So whenever, you know, you can use the word loading,
you can use the word mounting,
it's one and the same thing, okay?
Just to keep us on the same page, right?
Just so that everybody on the same page,
whenever I say loading the component,
that means I'm mounting the component into the webpage.
Got it?
So what happens?
How does React component works behind the scenes?
Okay, so suppose whenever in this,
so how, right?
Let me show it to you.
Let me get rid of this,
not to get rid of this functional component.
Let me move it over here.
So we have this about, right?
This is our parent.
So basically, this is our parent component,
about us component, right?
This is the about us page.
This is our about component.
Now, whenever this about component
is rendered onto the webpage
or maybe mounted onto the webpage,
so it basically starts rendering this JSX, right?
It starts rendering this JSX
and whenever it is rendering, it sees,
oh my God, there is a user class over here, right?
Which is imported from user class.
Now, what happens?
This parent is mounted, right?
This parent is mounted
and then as soon as it sees
that there is a user class component there,
so it starts to load user class now, right?
It starts to load user class now.
Let me repeat it once again, right?
If you have not understood,
listen to me very carefully.
This is an important thing.
Suppose, see, about us component
is the parent component, right?
And user class is inside this about us component, right?
So when you load this about component
into the webpage or maybe you render it, right?
So, you know, when it goes line by line
and it sees, oh, there is a class-based component there.
So it starts loading the class-based component,
starts loading, right?
It goes to this class-based component.
Now it will go to the class-based component.
Now a new instance of this class is created, right?
And what happens when this class is called
or maybe this class is instantiated, right?
So what happens is the constructor is called.
The first thing when the class loads
is a constructor is called, you know?
When I say class loads,
that means I'm creating a new instance of that class, okay?
So whenever that class is instantiated,
the constructor is called.
Remember this very important thing.
This constructor is called.
Once the constructor is called, then render is called, right?
Then render is called.
First constructor, that render.
First constructor, this then render, got it?
So if I do a console log over here, right?
Console log of constructor, okay?
If I say constructor, right?
If I say constructor, so this constructor is called
and then I will do a console log inside my render.
So let me just show it to you
that first of all, my constructor is called,
then my render method is called, got it?
That's how this class is instantiated.
If I go back, see this.
First the constructor is called, right?
Let me refresh the page.
First the constructor is called,
then the render is called.
Simple, got it?
Now, let me show it to you.
What if, now this becomes a little complicated
when you add, when you make this class-based component, right?
When you make the parent also class-based component, okay?
Let me show it to you.
This is a functional component.
How can we make it a class-based component?
Let's just quickly create it a class-based component
and then we will see how the life cycle
of everything works.
Got it?
This will make your concepts very clear.
Got it?
So this is a functional component.
I want to make this as a class-based component.
How do I do that?
Let's do it in the same file, okay?
So I'll create a class, name of the class about
and then I'll do a extends
and then I'll do a react.component,
react.component, right?
Isn't it?
And then I will create a class like this
and this class will have a render method, right?
Easy, right?
We have a render method, render method
and then this render method will have,
will return some piece of JSX, right?
Let me return the same thing.
Let me return the same thing.
Got it?
And now this is about class component, right?
About class component, it will return, right?
And then, so basically this is the same thing.
Let me get rid of this.
Got it?
This is the class, has a render method
and it returns some piece of JSX
and it extends react.component.
So we will need this react to come from somewhere, right?
So I can do something like this,
import react from react, right?
Not react, react.
Got it?
So we have got this react from react.
So now this works.
This is now the about class component.
Got it?
So let me tell you one more thing separately.
So some people do react.component over here
and some people would also write like this, right?
Component and what they will do,
they will destructure like this, right?
They will destructure it like this, right?
You can do something like this also.
Some people love to write react.component,
some people write like this.
Why I'm telling you all small things?
I'm telling you this
because a lot of times in your project, right?
You will see, go in the industry,
you will see some people write react.component,
some people write component.
So I don't want you to like get confused anytime, right?
So what happened?
Did I click on something?
Okay, I clicked on this git.
Okay, cool.
So what I'm telling you
that some people do react.component,
some people do component,
I don't want all,
I want all my students to understand everything, right?
So I was just showing you,
now we have converted our about component
into class-based component.
Suppose this component has render method.
Suppose this component also was getting some props, right?
So we will need constructor, constructor props,
and what should I do?
We are just quickly revising everything,
and over here we would also need super props, isn't it?
It is very important.
Homework, hope you would have done that already, right?
So now let me show it to you
how this component is loaded and how,
so basically this is the parent component
and this is the child component.
Now I will show you
how constructor and render functions are called
between these two.
Got it?
So what will happen is
I will do a console log over here.
I will do a console.log over here, right?
Console.log
and I will do maybe,
let's call this as constructor, right?
Constructor, constructor, right?
Okay, and over here,
I will write console.log render, okay?
Console.log render,
or maybe let us write parent constructor over here, right?
This is a parent, okay?
So that we can distinguish it easily, parent,
and this is a parent render.
And this user class is a child, right?
So let me write it as child constructor and child render.
So I'll now tell you how this works, right?
How this works, right?
How these components are loaded
or mounted onto the DOM.
Got it?
So what will happen is,
when the about component is loaded, right?
This is a parent component.
So first of all,
about component is initialized, right?
It's basically a new instance of this class is created.
So the constructor of this parent is called.
Then the render of this parent is called.
Then it goes to the children
and then it again trigger the life cycle
and now the constructor of this child will be called
and then the render of this child will be called.
Did you understand that?
Parent constructor, parent render, child constructor,
child render.
Easy.
So if I go back, if I refresh my page,
see parent constructor, parent render,
child constructor and child render.
Got it?
This is how things work over here.
Got it?
So this is how the life cycle of React works.
This is how the life cycle of class-based components works.
But now you would say,
Akshay, this was very easy.
Why were you saying
that this is a very important interview question?
I'll show it to you in a while
and you will be confused now, right?
I'm not confusing you,
but I will tell you that why things work the way it works.
Now I'll tell you one more important thing.
Just like we have constructor and render method,
class-based component also have one more method,
one more very important method
that is known as component-did-mount, right?
Component-did-mount, okay?
This is another method which React gives to us,
React class-based component gives to us,
which is component-did-mount.
So basically what happens is,
when this component is loaded,
first of all, the constructor is called,
then the render method is called
and once the constructor,
once this class-based component is mounted onto the DOM,
once it is there on the DOM,
then this component-did-mount is called.
Then this component-did-mount is called, right?
I'll show it to you, right?
How this works.
So when I do console.log,
I'll do child component-did-mount,
component-did-mount, right?
Component-did-mount, got it?
So this is child component-did-mount.
So how it will be called is,
first of all, when this class loads, right?
When this user class components is loading,
first of all, this constructor is called, right?
Then this render is called,
then this component-did-mount is called.
First of all, this constructor will be called,
then the render method,
then the component is mounted, right?
This is the mounting cycle.
This is the life cycle of this React component.
Constructor, render, component-did-mount.
That is why the name is there, component-did-mount.
This will be called
when the component has already mounted onto the webpage.
Got it?
So if we see, see this, child constructor, child render,
and child component-did-mount,
this is the way, this is the order,
how this component will be called.
Got it?
Suppose if we had this component-did-mount
inside my parent also, right?
Inside my parent also, right?
Parent will also have a constructor,
parent will also have a render,
and parent will also have a component-did-mount, right?
Let me just copy this up, parent-component-did-mount.
Now, can you guess?
Now, this makes an important interview question.
In what order will these functions be called?
In what order will these methods will be called, right?
If there is a parent and there is a child,
how these functions will be called?
This is an important interview question.
Take a moment and think about it.
Take a moment and think, pause the video over here,
and then think, and then I will give you the answer.
Now I'll tell you how parent and child relationship works,
right, over here.
Now, what will happen is,
when the parent will be loaded,
when this about component will be loaded,
so what will happen is, this constructor will be called,
then render will be called,
and when the component is rendering, right?
So it will render this,
and it will go to this class-based component.
It will see that there is a class-based component,
children, inside this parent.
So, it has not yet finished mounting.
It has not yet finished mounting.
It will go to the class-based component,
and it will trigger its lifecycle methods.
You know, before the component is mounted, right?
It has not finished rendering yet, right?
This about component has not finished rendering yet.
So, it will just go to class-based component,
it will trigger this class-based component's lifecycle.
Now, class-based components constructor will be called,
then this children render will be called,
then the children mount will be called,
component did mount,
and once the children has been mounted properly,
then the parent component did mount will be called,
then the parent component did mount will be called, okay?
So this component did mount is called,
once the component has been completely mounted,
once the component has been completely mounted
onto the web page, got it?
That is an important thing.
If you will go refresh the page,
first of all, parent constructor is called,
then parent render is called,
then the child's lifecycle methods are triggered,
then the child lifecycle methods are triggered,
and then once the child has been mounted successfully,
then the parent component did mount will be called, got it?
So this is the lifecycle of a parent-child relationship.
Understood it or not?
Let me repeat it once again,
because this is really very important, okay?
I am not lazy to not repeat it once again,
I will repeat it once again
so that it sticks to your head.
I will show you very slowly,
if you have not understood, please pay attention,
you will be properly understanding it, right?
So when this component is loaded,
first of all, the constructor is called, right?
And we print parent constructor, right?
First of all, the constructor is called,
then the render method is called, right?
Now the component starts rendering, right?
So the component render, parent render is called,
then what happens is when it is rendering, right?
It sees that, oh, there is a child also.
So now what happens it?
It triggers the lifecycle methods of the child now, right?
So now it goes to the child,
now the child constructor will be called
and it will print child constructor, okay?
Now once the child constructor is called,
then the render of that child is called, right?
Then the child will be rendered.
Now, because there is no more component inside it,
it just properly renders it.
Once the rendering is finished,
once the mounting of this component is finished,
now the component did mount.
When is component did mount called, right?
Component did mount is called,
once the component has been mounted,
now this component did mount will be called, right?
Now you would ask me, Akshay, what is the use of it?
I'll tell you the very important use case of this,
wait for a while, but just see the lifecycle,
how it works, right?
So when this component is mounted,
then the component did mount is called, right?
When the component did mount is called,
now this whole component has been mounted successfully, right?
Constructor, render, component did mount,
now it has been mounted successfully.
Once the child has been mounted successfully,
now the parent component did mount will be called, right?
Now the parent is rendered properly,
once the render function is finished of the parent,
now the component did mount of parent will be called.
So that's how the lifecycle method works.
Over here in this parent child relationship, got it?
So this is how it works, okay?
So now this is how it works,
and let me just go back over here,
and let me just show it to you, this is how it works.
Parent constructor, parent render,
and then all the lifecycle methods of children,
constructor, render and component did mount,
and then parent component did mount.
This is how it works, right?
Now I will tell you the most important use case,
why this component did mount is used?
Why it is there?
Why reactors given this to us?
So there are some things that we do
once the component is mounted successfully, got it?
What are those things?
A lot of people who have studied react from somewhere else
or who know basics of react would already know
component did mount is used,
component did mount is used to make API calls.
Very important use case, to make API calls.
You know, a lot of react developers,
if you ask them what is the use of component did mount,
they say to make an API call.
Component did mount is used to make an API call, right?
How an API call is made,
they will say it is made inside component did mount,
but they don't know why it is made
inside component did mount, very important thing to note.
They don't know why it is made
inside component did mount, they know that, okay,
if you have to make an API call,
make it inside component did mount, right?
But they don't know why we do that, right?
To know the understanding of this,
let me take you back to our functional component.
Let me take you back to our functional component, right?
All the knowledge of class based component aside,
now let's go back to our way of writing code
inside our functional component.
How we make an API call inside over here?
We make an API call inside use effect, right?
Use effect, isn't it?
Use effect, we pass a callback function over here
and over here, we make API call, right?
And we had a dependency array also,
an empty dependency array.
That means it will just make an API call once.
This is how we used to do.
You all know that already, right?
Remember that lesson, finding the path, right?
Not finding the path, basically, exploring the world.
Remember that episode exploring the world?
I taught you that, okay, we make API calls over here.
Why do we do that inside use effect?
Think about it, remember it.
We do that because remember,
I showed you the diagram once, right?
Let me open that diagram.
Here is my notes, right?
Let me go back over here.
Remember this diagram?
Remember this diagram, right?
Remember this diagram?
If you don't know, go back to that episode
and see it once again.
So what we try to do is, first of all, we,
you know, first of all, we load our component.
Once the component is loaded with basic details,
then we make an API call and fill the details.
Why?
So that react component loads very fast, right?
React does not wait for API call to return the result
then load it, right?
So basically what we want to do it,
let me repeat it in two lines, okay?
If you don't understand it so that it is revised.
So in react component, if you make an API call,
we don't want to, you know,
we want to render the component once,
make an API call and then fill the data
inside the component, right?
This is how we do.
Instead of waiting for the, you know,
we don't want to wait for API to return the data
to render the component.
Otherwise the component will not render
and it will keep on waiting for the data
to come from the API, right?
So what happens is react wants to quickly render it,
then make an API call and then fill the data, right?
React wants to quickly render it,
then make an API call, then render the data.
So this is why we use use effect
and similarly in the class-based component,
I want to quickly render my component.
I want to quickly render my component,
then make an API call, fill the data.
I want to render my component as fast as possible,
then make an API call, get the data.
So what we will do over here is,
if we have to make an API call,
I will first render my component, right?
Constructor will be called, render will be called,
now my component has been rendered.
Now I will make an API call over here, right?
I will make an API call over here
and then fill the data of the API call
inside my component, right?
It will re-render the component, got it?
So this is how we do inside class-based component,
very, very important.
A lot of people don't understand
why we make an API call inside component that mount.
They know that we make, but they don't know why, right?
Very, very important.
This is like pure gold knowledge I'm giving you.
I'm telling you, ask your friends who have studied,
ask a lot of React developers in the industry
don't know about this, a lot of developers,
they don't know about why we make an API call over here.
They just know that we have to make an API call
inside component that mount.
They don't know the reason behind it, right?
So this is how we make an API call over here.
So now I will also show you
how we can make an API call over here,
but wait for a while, do this, right?
Do this console log component did mount
and console log of parent and child in your code
and come back.
See, absorb it clearly.
Whatever I have said, if you did not understand this,
go back to the video, right?
Where I started teaching you, see it once again, right?
Go back to the video, see it once again
and once you have understood this clearly,
the order of life cycle, first constructor,
then render, then component did mount
and how it works between parent and child,
then come back and now I will show you
how to make an API call inside our class-based component.
Got it?
So we'll come back once again very soon.
So let's take a short break and I'll see you very soon.
Welcome back, my dear friends.
Now I'll show you an important thing,
how to make an API call.
But before that, I want to make,
I want to give you a little more twist
and let me make your understanding a little more clear
about these life cycle methods, right?
Because I will confuse you a little now, okay?
I will confuse you a little.
Now you would say, Akshay, are you mad?
Why are you confusing us?
You have to teach us.
I'm confusing you because if I will confuse you now,
the interviewer will not be able to confuse you.
If you will get confused now,
the interviewer will not be able to confuse you, okay?
So if you want to pass interviews,
listen to me very carefully, okay?
So let me go back to our parent.
Let me confuse you a little.
Right now, we just have parent
and then we have one child, right?
We have parent and then we have just one child user class.
What if we had multiple children?
Let's see how that life cycle works now, right?
If we had multiple children,
how can we have multiple children?
I am just copy pasting it once again, right?
Now we have two user classes,
two instance of the same user class,
two instances, right?
Two instances.
How does it work?
I'll show it to you, right?
So this is user class one.
This is user class two.
Got it.
So now, how will this get rendered?
How will the life cycle of these will work, right?
How will the life cycle of this will work, right?
So now I will tell you once again, right?
In theory, can you guess, right?
Pause the video and then see that in what order
are parent constructor, parent component
and parent render will be called over here, right?
Over here, what will be called?
In what order they will be called?
There are two components now.
Remember, there are two instances.
Now, a lot of people would be confused now, I know, right?
So you would be thinking that what,
Akshay, can we use this multiple times?
Yes, this is a normal component.
So when we are using this class component twice, right?
That means we are creating two different instances
of that class.
Remember, once again, I'm repeating it once again,
two instances of the same class, right?
Two instances of the same class.
I can have the same class,
but I can pass in different props, right?
One is Akshay Saini.
The other one can be something else, right?
Let me call that as Elon Musk, right?
Elon Musk, right?
Elon Musk is in my team, right?
Let's add Elon Musk to our team, right?
And where he is location,
let's give it some place in the US, right?
So Elon Musk is on our team now, right?
So I can use the same user class
and I can pass in different props over here.
Got it.
So now we have these two, right?
These two cards, right?
We have Akshay Saini and we have Elon Musk, right?
We have two childrens now.
How are these life cycle methods will work, right?
If I go back, see this.
Oh my God, I can't differ it, right?
So how will I differ it?
Let me just change the console logs, right?
So let me modify our console logs.
I will do something like this, right?
This.props, this.prop.name, right?
This.props.name plus child constructor.
So I am adding this name in front of our console log
so that we can differentiate which one we are,
which class base component we are referring to, okay?
So now the question is, right?
The question is to confuse you
in what order will these console logs be printed, right?
In what order will these console logs be printed, right?
There will be Akshay child constructor,
there will be Elon child constructor, right?
So how will these be printed, right?
Let me go back, refresh the page and we'll show it to you,
right?
Let me not show it to you.
Let us just reason how it will be printed, right?
Now you would be thinking that, okay, Akshay,
first of all, our parent will be rendered,
that is for sure.
Listen to me very carefully, parent will be rendered, right?
And parent, now when the parent lifecycle method
will be triggered, first of all,
the first thing will be parent constructor, right?
Parent constructor, parent constructor will be finished,
right?
Then let me write it down, right?
Let me write it down over here, right?
First of all, what will happen is,
parent constructor will be called, isn't it?
Then what will happen?
Parent render will be called, isn't it?
But once the parent is rendered, right?
Now, it sees that there is a child also, right?
There is a child.
So what it will do?
It will trigger the lifecycle methods of child, isn't it?
It will just call Akshay's constructor, right?
Akshay is the first child, right?
Akshay constructor.
And then what will happen is,
now it will call what Akshay render, right?
Akshay render.
Then what happens will, what will happen?
It will call Akshay component did mount, isn't it?
Akshay component did mount.
What will happen is,
once the Akshay's lifecycle method has been finished,
once the Akshay's lifecycle method has been finished,
now it will trigger the lifecycle methods
of Elon Musk, right?
So what will happen is,
now what will happen is,
Elon constructor will be called, right?
Listen to me once again, right?
Then you would assume that it will be Elon,
render will happen, right?
Then you would think that Elon component did mount
will call, right?
Component did mount will be called, isn't it?
And once, both the components, right?
Both the children components
have been rendered successfully, right?
Once this Akshay is rendered, Elon is mounted.
Now, what will happen is,
once both of these children are mounted successfully,
now the parent component did mount will be called, right?
This is what you would be thinking, right?
Right?
And let me show it to you,
let me tell you that this is wrong.
This is wrong, my dear friends.
This is not the order which will be called.
That is what I wanted to tell you,
that is what I wanted to confuse you,
that my dear friends,
this is not how life cycle methods are called
when there are multiple children's.
Why?
You would now pull your hairs, Akshay.
I was expecting this,
but why react is confusing us?
React is not confusing us,
react is just optimizing.
React is just optimizing.
And let me tell you why this happens,
and what happens, first of all, right?
If not this, then what order these parent
and child will be called, right?
So let's go back and see in the browser console,
let me show it to you, right?
Where we make the mistake, right?
So first is parent constructor,
second is parent render,
then what happens is child, right?
This is Akshay's child constructor,
then Akshay render,
then Elon Musk constructor, Elon Musk render,
and then component did mount of Akshay,
and then component did mount of Elon,
and then parent component did mount.
So basically, it first of all,
called the constructor and render of parent,
then it called the constructor and render
of the first child,
then they called,
let Akshay and Elon is confusing, right?
Let's give it like first and second, right?
Let's name it as first and second.
It's very confusing like this, isn't it?
Oh my God, let's give this the name first and second, right?
So first and second, now it will make more sense, right?
See the logs now, now the logs will be better, right?
So first parent constructor, parent render,
first child constructor, first child render,
then, you know, first child component did mount
is not called second child constructor,
second child render, first child component did mount,
second child component did mount, parent component did mount.
This is the coder these life cycle methods are created.
But why?
Why did the life cycle method work like this?
Now for this, I want to dive deep
into one more concept, open your ears,
listen to me very carefully.
There is something known as
react life cycle method diagram, right?
And this diagram will make you clear everything.
If you understand this important react life cycle diagram,
note this website, right?
Projects.votech, votechmas.pl, I don't know how to,
I don't know how to pronounce it,
but this is the place where you have to refer.
If you understand this diagram, right?
This react life cycle methods diagram,
if you understand this diagram, nobody can defeat you, right?
Your understandings will be solid, okay?
This is react life cycle method, right?
Now, first of all, I want to tell you one thing
that only focus upon this first box, mounting phase, right?
Just focus upon this mounting,
and I will tell you that how react works, okay?
How react works.
So in the react, when the component is mounted, right?
When the component is mounted,
it is mounted in two phases, right?
You know, people say that react is fast.
This is the actual knowledge which I want to give you
and tell you that why react is fast, my dear friends.
I want to give you this knowledge why react is fast.
React is fast because react has two phases, two phases.
First phase is render phase.
The second phase is commit phase.
What happens in render phase
and what happens in commit phase, let me tell you.
This is how the life cycle works.
When the component is mounting,
first of all, our constructor is called, right?
Then the render is called.
This constructor in render is the render phase, right?
Then the react updates the DOM.
Then the react actually updates the DOM
and then component did mount is called.
Understood it?
Let me repeat it once again.
Let me actually repeat it once again for you.
First of all, constructor is called.
Then the render method is called.
Got it?
Then actually react updates the DOM.
Then react updates the DOM.
Once the DOM is updated,
then component did mount is called.
Got it?
So what happens is,
suppose if we have this user class,
so first of all, constructor will be called.
Then the render will be called.
Then the react will update the DOM.
Once the DOM is updated, once the DOM is loaded,
then component did mount is called.
Then this component did mount is called
and that is why this is the best place
to make an API call, right?
Once the, see the user class, right?
This component is quickly rendered onto the web page, right?
Quickly the DOM is updated,
then the component did mount is called.
That is why we make an API call over here, right?
So this is the life cycle of it, right?
This is the life cycle.
Only focus upon the mounting phase right now, right?
Constructor is called, render is called,
react updates the DOM and component did mount is called.
And this mounting cycle happens for every child,
every parent, every component in the react.
Every child, every parent, every component in the react
goes through these life cycle methods.
Got it?
One is the render phase, one is the commit phase.
Repeating it once again, remember it.
Render phase, commit phase.
Render phase has constructor, render.
In the commit phase, react actually updates the DOM
and then component did mount is called.
Got it?
Now, this will make a lot of sense to you.
Now, this will make a lot of sense to you
if you will refer this diagram, right?
If you will refer this diagram,
everything will make sense to you.
Got it?
So let me just get it on the side, right?
Let me get this diagram on the side, right?
Let me just get this diagram on the side.
Mounting constructor, render and then component did mount, right?
Now I will show you how this whole code will work.
This is our parent, right?
So first of all, this about will start
this mounting phase, right?
About component will be mounted.
When the about of this mounting happens,
what will happen?
Constructor will be called.
So parent constructor will be printed, right?
This is correct.
We also said parents constructor will be printed.
What will happen now?
This component did mount is not printed, right?
What will happen now?
Our render will happen, right?
Now our render will happen in the render phase.
Now parent render will happen
and now parent render will be printed.
Now the parent is rendered, right?
Now it sees that, okay, there is the,
there is the turn for our first child, right?
This is the first child, user class.
It goes to the first child
and it starts the lifecycle method of this child.
It starts the lifecycle method of this child.
So it will call the constructor of the first child.
It will call the render of this first child.
Now, because there are two children over here,
React optimizes this.
React will not call the component did mount
of the child, first child first,
but it will, what it will do is
it will just batch the render phase
for these two child.
Remember this once again.
React will batch the render phase for these two child.
So what will happen is these two child's
render phase will happen,
then commit phase will happen together.
This is an optimization of React.
So what will happen is the first child,
constructor will be called,
the first child render will be called
and then render phase is finished.
Now it will start the render phase of the second child.
It will finish the,
it will call the second child constructor,
second child render,
and now the commit phase will be batched together.
So this render phase is batched,
the commit phase is batched.
Got it.
That is why the output will be in this order.
That is why the output will be in this order,
my dear friend.
Let me repeat it once again.
There are two phases.
Okay, let me expand my diagram once again.
Okay, let me expand my diagram.
Okay, let me expand my diagram.
So here is our diagram, right?
So what will happen?
Constructor and render, this is the render phase.
In the render phase we call constructor,
then we have render, this is the render phase.
Now actual DOM update happened,
then this is the commit phase
and then component did bound.
This is the commit phase.
Render phase, commit phase.
So what happens is parent constructor is called,
parent render is called,
then the first child constructor is called,
first child constructor,
then the first child render is called, right?
So the render phase is completed,
it will batch the render phase.
Now the second child constructor is called
and the second child render is called, right?
Second child render is called.
Then what will happen?
Once the render phase is batched and completed,
then the commit phase will happen
for first child and the commit phase for second child.
Why React is doing that, right?
This is how React is doing that.
Why it is doing that like this?
This is an important question.
See, I am diving deep into these concepts.
Nobody will teach you, trust me.
These are very important things.
I have got this knowledge by studying the documentation,
reading it here and there,
reading Stack Overflow Answers,
reading random blogs from React, right?
And learning how that reconciliation process works.
Why React is doing all that?
React is doing that.
React is batching up the render phase for multiple children.
React is batching because once the commit phase starts,
once the commit phase starts,
React tries to update the DOM
and DOM manipulation is the most expensive thing
when we are updating a component.
When we are loading a component,
DOM manipulation is very, very expensive.
It takes a lot of time.
So React want to batch the render,
you know, render phase is what, right?
Render phase is what?
Render phase, remember the reconciliation process
I told you?
Finding the def, what happens, right?
When React calls the constructor,
React, when the React is rendering, right?
In this render phase,
React is basically triggering the reconciliation
and in this reconciliation, that object, right?
There is a object and then there is a object.
It finds out the def between these virtual DOM, right?
Virtual DOM is created.
So everything in the render phase
is happening inside a virtual DOM, right?
Why virtual DOM is fast?
Because virtual DOM is just JavaScript, right?
It just deals with objects, right?
So in this render phase,
React is just finding the def of that, right?
And then what happens is
when it tries to update the DOM,
it says that, okay,
let me find out all the children's batch the render phase
because render phase is very fast.
Commit phase takes time.
So the commit phase takes time.
That is why it just batches the render phase.
All the child components are rendered.
Then the commit happens.
Then this commit phase is happens.
Then the DOM is later on happens
because, you know, DOM is expensive, right?
Manipulating the DOM or updating the DOM is an expensive task.
So React tries to batch up that task, right?
React tries to batch up render.
React tries to batch up the mounting, right?
DOM, right?
Updating the DOM.
React tries to batches things up for all these children.
And that is why React is fast.
This is the knowledge which I want to give you
and this is how you have to tell to the interviewer
and interviewer will be amazed.
Interviewer will not be able to confuse you.
If you know this,
any number of child component comes in,
any number of hierarchy comes in,
you will never fail in your interviews, okay?
So this is how it works.
If I go back over here, if I refresh the page,
now see this, parent constructor makes sense.
Parent render, it makes sense.
First child constructor, first child render,
render phase is finished, right?
Render phase is batched.
Second child constructor, second child render.
Now the first child component did mount, right?
After the second child, right?
After the second child render happens.
So over here, right?
Over here, the DOM manipulation begins, right?
Over here, the DOM manipulation, DOM is updated, right?
And it is updated in batching, right?
Batching happens in batches, in a single batch, right?
In a single time, right?
Our DOM is updated, right?
The virtual DOM is now, the diff is calculated, right?
Over here, after this, the diff is calculated,
reconciliation has triggered,
and now after that it is batched
and the DOM is updated now, right?
In a single batch, both of these children's DOM is updated,
so it will optimize the performance of the React app, right?
React is optimizing the performance like this, right?
Instead of doing that commit phase, right?
So this is the render phase for both the children,
this is the commit phase for both the children, right?
So React is first of all doing the render phase,
then the commit phase for both the children.
Hope you would have understood this.
This is a complex example, and if you understand this,
nobody can defeat you in the interview.
I wanted to teach you, I wanted to dive deep
just because this is important for the interviews
and you will not get confused.
If you are still confused, practice this on your own.
Or maybe before I move ahead, right?
Let's take a break over here, go back,
create your first child, second child,
and then we will come back, right?
See, right?
Try to make sense of it,
try to add one more child inside it, right?
And then see that how these are built, right?
So if you just try to make three child over here
and try to reason why it is happening,
create more hierarchy, do that, right?
Practice it, your concepts will be very clear,
I am telling you, right?
Your concepts will be very clear, see this?
Then you have three child, right?
So render phase of all these three child,
then commit phase of all these three child.
So this is batching up,
you have answers to all the questions, right?
In-depth questions, you can confuse,
now the interviewers will not be able to confuse you,
you will be able to confuse the interviewer now, right?
If they don't know,
if they don't have a proper knowledge, right?
So this is how it works, my dear friends,
and this is what I wanted to tell you,
we will come back, take a break,
let take some time to absorb this in your head,
come back and then we will see
how we can make an API call, right?
So let's get back very soon,
let's get back very soon, practice it and come back.
Welcome back, my dear friends,
now I'll show you how we can make API calls
inside our class-based components, isn't it?
You already know where we have to make an API call,
but now let us see how to make an API call,
get the data, put it into the class-based component,
let's see everything quickly, right?
And this will not take much time, right?
Because you already know a lot of things.
The most important thing is to remember
this lifecycle method, right?
The mounting phase, remember this,
we will see the updating, unmounting everything, right?
Just see this, right?
Mounting phase is the most important phase right now, right?
So you have understood these lifecycle method,
I'm just keeping the comment over here,
I will push the code so that you can also see this,
refer this, right?
Or maybe let me just remove this, right?
Otherwise it won't make sense,
and let me get rid of these random components, right?
So there are multiple components over here, right?
So let me just get rid of all this,
let me show you how to make an API call now, right?
So only one component, right?
This name and location is here, right?
So let me just go back.
Now what we'll do, we will make an API call
and get this data, right?
Get this user data,
let me also get rid of this count, right?
It is just making things very messy, right?
Let's get rid of this count, right?
Let me get rid of this count
and let me get rid of these props also, right?
We don't need props, right?
Or maybe let's keep the props, right?
It's okay, let's keep the props.
So where is the state variable?
Let's get rid of this count, right?
Let me get rid of this count.
Yeah, let me get rid of this count also,
let me get rid of this button also, right?
Now it looks very clean, right?
Count increase, okay?
I did not, yep.
Now it looks good.
Let me go back and let me see, yep.
So now we have this card, right?
So we have these logs and we have this card also, okay?
So now let me get rid of these console logs
also randomly, right?
Let me get rid of these console logs also.
For a while, let me just do this,
otherwise it will just create a lot of nonsense over here, right?
And let's get back to the parent,
let me also comment this down, right?
Otherwise it will just confuse us a lot, right?
Now we will make an API call, okay?
So now you already know what happens is
there are two phases, render phase, commit phase, right?
So once the render phase completes, right?
Once it is rendered, right?
And the DOM is updated.
Now we will make an API call, right?
Right now we are getting these first Dehradun class
as the props inside our component,
but now we will make an API call to GitHub API, right?
We will call the GitHub user API,
GitHub user API, right?
GitHub user API, right?
This user API, where is that?
Get a user, yes, this API, right?
This is the GitHub user API,
api.github.com slash username, right?
If I show you this API,
api.github.api.users slash username,
let me put my username over here, Akshay, March 7th, right?
If I hit enter, this is the data,
which we are getting from API,
this call we will make from the code now, right?
This is the data which is written
from api.github.com, right?
This is the API, right?
Let's make an API call inside our component,
date mount, got it?
So now how we used to make an API call
inside our functional component, right?
Remember, we used to create a async function, right?
Async function, async function, right?
As, y, n, c, async function, right?
Async function, get data, get user info or something.
This is how we used to do, right?
And we used to have a, right?
And we used to do const data is equals to await.
Remember, we used to do something like this.
So how do we do that in class-based component, right?
How do we do that in class-based component?
In class-based component,
you can make component did mount function as async, right?
You can create this function as async,
and over here, what we can do,
we can do something like,
const data is equals to await, and then fetch,
and then we will make an API call over here, right?
We will make this as async,
and we will have this await, right?
And then we got this data, right?
And then we will convert this data to JSON
is equals to data dot, data dot JSON, right?
We have got this JSON over here.
Now what we'll do?
Now we will just see, right?
Let me just console log and see
if the API call was made successfully or not.
Did we get the JSON data or not over here, right?
So this is what, and I'll have to do await also,
because that will return a promise, right?
So this is how we make an API call.
Let me go back to the browser
and let me refresh the page, and let me see.
We have successfully made an API call
and we have the data with us, my dear friends.
If you go to the network call,
and if you see the fetch calls, right?
This is the API call,
and if you see, we have got the data with us.
We have got the name over here, right?
We have got the name Akshay Saini over here.
We have got the, we have got the photo also, right?
We have this avatar URL, right?
We have got the bio, we have got the blog.
We have got a lot of things, right?
So let us now use this data to show inside our card, right?
Let's show this data over here.
Now let me show you that how we can update
this JSON data onto our webpage, right?
Now we will show you how to update
this JSON data into our webpage, right?
How do we update that?
What I'll do is now I will create a state variable.
How do I get the JSON data over here?
I will create the state variable
and I will update that state,
which will just get our data over here, right?
I'll show it to you.
For that, I will be using local state variables, right?
Now I have got this data over here.
So I will create a local state variable
and we'll put that data into that, right?
So in this data, right, I will just do some user info
and then I will create a state variable user info, right?
And then this user info will contain some dummy data, right?
Initial state, right?
We have to give this initial state.
Let me give some dummy data as name, right?
Name as maybe call that a dummy name or something, right?
I'm just creating a basic, right?
This default state is basically the same state, right?
Suppose if I have to do over here, right?
This use state, right?
We used to pass over here the default value of the variable, right?
Of the state variable.
This is how I pass the default variable over here, right?
And then the location of it, right?
And then the location of it, right?
Default location, let's give it default, right?
Default location, right?
So we have created the state variable
with some dummy data.
Now what we'll do?
We will now update our state variable
after I have got the data inside my API call.
How I will update this state user info?
How I will update?
Remember I told you, what was that method?
It was set state, isn't it?
Set state, and now I have got this set state.
This set state will have this object, user info,
and now I will put in my JSON inside this user info.
I am updating my state, right?
And now how do I use my state variables over here?
Let me get rid of this props, right?
How do I use my state variable over here, right?
I will just use this dot state dot user info, right?
Dot name, right?
I can do this dot state dot user info dot name,
this dot state dot user info dot location.
Instead, let me just destructure it, right?
That will make more sense.
I will just destructure my name
from my this dot state dot user info, right?
I will just destructure it,
and I will just use my name and location from here.
If I save this file, go back to my page, refresh it.
Oops, something went wrong.
There was some error.
What was that error?
Let me just see.
Let's just get rid of.
Objects are not valid react child.
Objects are not valid react child, why?
Objects are not valid react child, okay?
I think I have not given location over here.
Location like this.
Yep, now it works, right?
So basically this location was not there,
so that's why it was causing problem.
So I get over here.
Now we have location and Akshay
which is coming from live API, my dear friends.
This Akshay, Saini and India is coming from here, right?
From this API.
So what we did was we updated our state variable.
We created our state variable over here,
and then we updated that state variable with the data.
And now once the state is updated,
this will update, this will update the component
with the latest data over here.
Let me also, let us also,
let me make this card a little more cool, right?
We have this Aftar URL.
Let us show the photo also, right?
Photo will look cool, isn't it?
Photo will look cool, right?
Let's use this Aftar URL also.
How do I use my Aftar URL?
Aftar URL will come over here in the data.
Let's give a dummy Aftar URL, right?
Basically, HTTP dummy, dummy, dummy photo, right?
So if you want to give dummy photo, right?
If the user has some, the photo is not loaded, right?
If the Aftar URL is not coming properly,
you can give the dummy photo, right?
Over here, right?
And then what we will do,
I will just use my Aftar URL over here, right?
Let's give it an Aftar URL.
Let me create an IEMG tag, right?
Let's show IEMG tag and SRC Aftar URL, right?
Let's go back, right?
Cool, right?
This looks cool, isn't it?
We have got our Aftar URL also from our dummy data, right?
Okay, so it was trying to load this also,
so it throwed an error.
Instead, let me not give it and see
if it breaks or not, right?
It works fine, cool.
So this is fine, right?
So what happens is, right?
So we have got this image URL over here, right?
We have got this image URL over here
and now we have made this card.
Now, I will tell you that why this works
and how this works, right?
I have written this code quickly.
Let me just show you that how the whole life cycle
of it works, how the data was phased,
how the component was updated, right?
I will show you now very, very important.
Got it?
I will tell you properly how that life cycle worked.
Got it?
So what happened first is,
let me just get my diagram once again,
like life cycle diagram over here once again, right?
Where it is, right?
Over here, right?
So what happened is, first of all,
listen to me very carefully, very, very carefully.
First of all, what happened?
As soon as this user class was loaded, right?
As soon as this user class was loaded,
the constructor was called
and when the constructor was called,
this state variable was created with some default value,
okay?
The constructor was called in the render phase.
Then what happens is, render happened.
After this constructor, render happened.
Now, this state variable had default value, right?
So the render happens with a default value.
Our component renders with a default value.
All the default value, right?
Whatever was there, the name was dummy.
So this name dummy,
this whole component is rendered
with the default value onto the web page.
That means React will update the DOM with the dummy data.
Got it?
React will update in our code, right?
Basically, React will update it with dummy data.
If I refresh very quickly, right?
See this?
Do you see dummy data for a while?
For some milliseconds, we see dummy data, right?
We see dummy data, right?
So maybe let's put a debugger here, debugger,
and let me show it to you, right?
Bugger, right?
If I put a debugger, let me refresh the page.
See this, not rendered.
See this?
We have loaded this component with some dummy data.
How?
First of all, our constructor was called, right?
With some dummy data.
Then what happened?
I debugger, right?
This component was rendered with the dummy data.
The component was rendered with some dummy data,
the dummy data, okay?
So now let me get rid of this debugger.
Now let me tell you what happened after that, right?
Now let me tell you what happened after that, okay?
So cancel it, right?
So we were over here, right?
Constructor was called, render happened,
and this React updated the DOM with some dummy data.
Now our component did mount was called, right?
Now our component did mount was called,
now our component did mount was called,
and this component did mount was called over here,
and API call was made.
Now that API call was made.
When this API call was made,
it, this component did mount was called,
it called set state.
When this set state will called,
see the mounting happened,
this mounting cycle happened.
Now we will see the updating cycle.
When we call this set state,
the our updated cycle begins, okay?
Now it makes sense, right?
Now it makes sense in the life cycle diagram.
So mounting cycle finished
when the component was rendered once.
Our component was rendered once with some dummy data,
very quickly.
We did not wait for API call to finish, right?
We are not waiting for API call to finish.
Component is rendered quickly with the dummy data,
quickly with the dummy data
so that user sees something, right?
That is the point we saw some Simmer UI or something,
right?
So instead of this user info, right?
You can show some Simmer effect, right?
You can show some dummy image and that loading things.
So component is rendered quickly with the dummy data
in this mounting phase.
When we do this set state, updating phase start.
See this, that is why we have set state over here, right?
So updating happens when the set state is called.
Now our set state is called
and now set state updates the state variable.
This state variable is updated now.
When the state variable is updated,
react triggers the render once again.
React triggers this function render once again, right?
Constructor is called just once.
React triggers the render once again, my dear friends.
React triggers the render once again, right?
Once again the render happens.
Now the render happens but this time the state variable
has been changed it with the updated value.
This state has been changed with the updated value, isn't it?
Let me just go over here, let me show it to you.
In this updating, react state has been changed, right?
State has been updated, right?
This state has been updated with the new value.
So react will render it now in the update cycle,
react will now update the DOM.
So see this, react will calculate the diff
and it will update the DOM with the new value now.
So the react will update the DOM with the new value
and now this image, this new image, this new name,
this new image, this new name, this new location,
everything will be updated.
This new image name will be updated over here.
And then the update cycle says
that now it will call component did update.
Oh my God, we had component did mount.
Do we have component did update also?
Yes, my dear friends.
When react has updated our DOM,
there is something known as component did update also, right?
Component, just like we had component did mount,
we had component did update also.
We had component did update also.
And then this component, this update is called later on
at the end, right?
We can do a console log component did update, right?
This is called component did update.
Got it, component did update is called.
And that's how our update cycle is worked.
Let me repeat it once again, right?
Let me make it first of all, let me expand it, right?
Let me go back, right?
Let me explain you once again in the browser
what happens is, what happens is,
let me write and show it to you, right?
Let me write and show it to you.
This will make more sense, okay?
This will make more sense.
First of all, what happens?
Constructor is called constructor.
If you understand this, my dear friends, right?
You will be, you will love react, right?
You will love react.
Constructor is called, constructor is called.
And there is a glitch also, I'll tell you, right?
Constructor is called.
And then what will happen?
Constructor is called, now my render is called, right?
Now we render the component, right?
Constructor is called render this component.
And this time, render happens with the dummy data, right?
Constructor updates the state with dummy data, right?
Now constructor and render happens with dummy data.
Now, when the render happened,
now the web page is loaded, right?
HTML, now the HTML has dummy data, right?
The component has dummy data onto the web page
for few milliseconds, right?
Then what happens?
Then what happens?
Then component did mount is called, isn't it?
Component did mount is called, right?
Now, when the component did mount is called,
when the component did mount is called,
we make an API call, right?
We make an API call inside this component did mount, right?
Component did mount.
API call is called.
When the API call is called,
after that we do a this state, right?
After that, we do this state, this dot set state, right?
This dot set state.
Now, this finishes our mounting cycle.
This was our mounting life cycle, right?
This was our mounting life cycle, right?
This was our mounting life cycle.
What do you mean by mounting life cycle?
Happens like this.
Mounting constructor, render update.
Component did mount, this dot set state.
This mounting cycle is finished, right?
Mounting cycle is finished.
Now, what happens is once the mounting cycle is finished,
now set state was called.
So set state, whenever there is a set state,
it triggers the reconciliation process
and the update cycle.
Now this update cycle is called.
Now this update cycle is called.
When the set state is called,
now the render method will be called once again, right?
Now the update cycle begins.
Update cycle, right?
In the update cycle, what happens?
Set state render method is called, right?
But when the set state is called,
this render method will happen with API data, right?
Because now with this dot set state,
state variable is updated, right?
State variable is updated, variable is updated, right?
Now the render is called with the new data,
updated data, right?
Render is happened, render is happened.
Now the React updates is done.
Now the web page is loaded, right?
HTML is loaded now, right?
This render happens.
Now the HTML is basically loaded.
Now the HTML is loaded.
HTML is loaded with API data, new API data, right?
So now at this point, the user will see
that image and name and everything on the HTML.
And now after this, what will happen?
After this, what will happen?
It will call component did update.
Then it will call component did update,
component did update, okay?
So this is how the whole lifecycle method works, right?
This is how the whole lifecycle method works
and then this is how the whole lifecycle method works.
And now if I will remove,
I will enable all the console logs.
Let us see this working, right?
Let us see this working, right?
Let us see this working, okay?
So let's see this working.
If I go back to our page, if I refresh the page,
if I refresh the page,
it is not making an API call, what happened to it?
API rate limit exceeded.
API rate limit, oh my God,
we have made a lot of API calls,
so the rate limit exceeded for this API, right?
Can I call it some, oh my God,
this API rate limit exceeded?
But no worries, we can anyway see the lifecycle method,
even if the API rate limit exceeded.
So, you know, when you are using GitHub APIs,
make sure you don't update,
you don't finish the API rate limit.
But we can obviously see the lifecycle methods anyways, right?
So first of all, the constructor is called,
render is called, right?
Constructor is called,
render is called,
DOM is updated with dummy data, right?
And then we will call the component did mount,
component did mount is called,
and we have got the API call,
we have got the API call,
once the API call is made,
we have done set state,
now the set state did not happen
because set state did not happen,
the data did not change in the set state, right?
So then render is called,
then the component did update is called, right?
So there is what I wanted to show you is that,
there is something known as component did update also, right?
So that is also called after the update cycle,
and that's how React works.
First of all, mounting cycle happens,
then the update cycle happens, right?
First of all, the mounting cycle happens,
then the update cycle happens.
So that is how our component is mounted,
and that is how the update happens.
Got it?
This is how it works.
Now you would say, what is unmounting cycle?
There is something known as unmounting cycle also.
Let me quickly finish this up,
wrap this up, right?
The life cycle methods,
unmounting happens, right?
There is a function known as component will unmount, right?
So let me add that also.
If I have component did unmount, right?
Component, remember, it is component will unmount.
Component will unmount, right?
Component will unmount.
Remember, this is component did,
this is component will.
So basically, this function is called
just before our component is unmounting.
What do you mean by unmount?
Unmount means when this component will go from this,
then when this component will disappear from this HTML,
from our web page,
when this component will be unmounted.
Mounting means showing onto the UI.
Unmounting means disabling, right?
Removing from the UI, right?
So then unmount will be called, right?
This component will unmount will be called.
Let me console long, component will unmount.
So let me save it, right?
Let me save it, let me refresh the page.
So see this, component did update is called,
component did unmount, component will unmount will be called
when this component is gone from the page.
When will the component go from the page?
When I go to the new page, right?
So let me just go to the contact us page.
If I go to the contact us page, see this.
Component will unmount was called.
Got it?
Component will unmount was called in this state, right?
So when I was in about us page,
when I was on about us page,
our component was mounted properly, right?
Component was mounted properly, update cycle happened.
Then as soon as I went to contact us page,
as soon as the component will unmount,
before that component will unmount will be called, right?
This is how the life cycle method works.
Mounting, updating, unmounting, all of this works, right?
So this is how it works.
And this is a lot of information, my dear friends.
Lot of information.
And earlier we used to write code like this.
You know, earlier we used to write code like this, right?
Now we write use effect and we do a lot of things, right?
We can do all of these things in small lines,
very less lines.
Earlier we used to write so much code to make this works,
right?
Earlier we used to write so much code to make this works
and we were confused with component will mount,
component did mount, component did update,
component will unmount, render cycle, this cycle,
that cycle and everything was a mess in React.
The best part of React now is it has simplified a lot, right?
React has simplified itself a lot
and that is why React is gaining popularity
and that is why it is the most loved framework right now.
Right?
React realized, earlier React realized that, you know,
when I was in, when I was in job, right?
When I was coding, I have written all this,
component did update, component did mount, component this,
like I used to mess up my hairs, right?
So why I'm teaching you all this
because this is important for your interviews,
that is why I wanted to teach you all this, right?
So this was it, you know, I wanted to dive more deep
but this much of information is enough for you, right?
This much of information is enough for you
if you are preparing for interviews
but if you are curious to know more,
if you are curious to know more, what I will do is,
you know, when I was teaching my live batch previously,
so I told them, I dived more deep into these concepts.
I dived more deep into the concepts
and then I told them more information.
Right now, I feel that this much information is current, right?
Because anyways, class-based components are now outdated,
nobody uses them, this much information
is enough for your interviews
but if you are curious, then what I will do is,
I will just take the clip from my live batch
and I will put the clip now, right?
After this session, I will put the clip now, right?
So if you are interested, go ahead and watch that clip
and make your foundation even more strong.
This was it in the video
and now you can see the clip from the live batch,
that's it, right?
And I would say that if you have time, please watch it.
It will just increase your foundations so much
that you will not be able to be defeated
in any interviews, right?
You will be able to answer all the questions
if you will dive deep, right?
You will get a lot of Eureka moments
if you will see that clip also, right?
You will get a lot of AHA movement, right?
When you will see that clip.
So if you want to get those AHA movement,
if you want to get that excitement
and exciting stuff, see that clip, right?
I am attaching it now, should I go more deep?
Yes or no?
Do you have some time?
I'll go more deep inside this, okay?
Let's go more deep inside this, okay?
Awesome.
Okay, I'll show you more cool stuff, okay?
You know, this is what I prepared for today's session,
but I am feeling that you people have a lot of energy, okay?
So let's go more deep, okay?
Let's let me teach you more, okay?
More heavy stuff, okay?
Cool.
Now, I have one great question for you.
One amazing question for you, okay?
One amazing question for you.
You know, you know, you, do you see this?
Do you see this code?
How messy did it go?
See this code?
What are we doing?
Just easy peasy stuff we are doing
and it has become messy.
Think about React developers writing this code.
If you go to the old, you know,
if you go to the old repositories of React,
you will find the code like this only.
You will find the code like this only, right?
You, it just used to mess up your head
about these life cycle methods and you have to remember.
But let's, let's go back, okay?
This was our profile component.
There was a profile functional component also, right?
We have a profile functional component also, right?
This was our functional component.
Remember this functional component?
So one disclaimer I would love to give you,
one disclaimer I would love to give you, one disclaimer.
Okay, the disclaimer is important thing to remember.
Never ever compare React's life cycle method
to functional component.
What will you do?
Never compare your React's life cycle method to,
you know, I see that React developers have a bad habit.
They say that, okay,
use effect is equivalent to component dead mount.
Is this equivalent?
Don't say this, please.
I don't know if it is equivalent or not, right?
But I don't want my students to say this, okay?
Keep my respect, okay?
There are lots of, there are lots of, you know,
there are lots of bloggers, right?
They write blog posts where they mention that, okay,
use effect is equivalent to component dead mount.
It is not, it is not,
because if you are making a mental map,
if you are putting in your head that, okay,
component dead mount may be API call,
like we used to do an API call in component dead mount,
we are making an API call in use effect,
they are not equal.
Use effect is not using component dead mount
behind the scenes, no.
It's completely different.
It's a new way altogether.
Never ever compare.
Can you give me a thumbs up?
Can you think, a lot of teachers teach you like that.
I'm telling you, a lot of teachers teach you like that,
because it is confusing to teach, right?
On YouTube, if I make this, see, you know,
how much time did I take to teach you all this?
Classmates component, it took me like
two and a half hours already.
If you go to YouTube, you will find tutorials
for 20 minutes.
If you have to teach in 20 minutes,
you will teach like this only.
You will teach like this only.
So that is why it does not go deep,
never compare both of them, never, okay?
I don't want my students to compare it.
Gotcha?
Okay.
Now let me tell you one more thing.
But I'll tell you all the things
that you can do inside use effect, how it is done.
Let us just see, okay?
Okay, I'll ask you a few questions.
What happens?
What happens when I don't put a dependency array?
When will this function be called?
When will this use effect will be called?
After every render, isn't it?
After each and every render,
my use effect function will be called.
Now things are different in class-based component, right?
Things are different in class-based component.
What will be called at the first time, first render?
After first render, component did mount is called.
And after every subsequent render,
after every subsequent render, it is updated.
It is not mounted, it is updated.
There is a difference between mount and update
and unmount, mount, update, unmount.
Mount, update, unmount, there is a difference.
You should know that difference, okay?
Awesome stuff, right?
And okay, this is what I...
So suppose, okay, in use effect,
we do like this, empty dependency array.
Empty dependency array, right?
Empty dependency array.
What does this mean?
When will this be called?
Yes, it will be called just once
in the initial render.
So you know, React developers made the API very easy.
React developer says, okay, you just have to call
after one initial render.
Don't have to remember about lifecycle methods.
So you know, when we write modern React code,
they remove the concept of these lifecycle methods.
They remove the concepts of these lifecycle methods.
They don't want new developers to know
that what is component did mount,
update, all that took off.
That is why all the new React developers
don't know React to the core.
They don't know.
They just know...
