FILE: Episode 12 - Let's build our store.part001.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Welcome back to Namaste React. This is episode 12. Let's build our store. In this
episode we are going to see how we can create our own Redux Store. As you would
have already guessed it, right? We are going to study Redux in this episode my
dear friends and we are going to build our own store. We are going to see how
we can manage state of our application using Redux, right? How we can
manage data of our application using Redux and we will also see remember in the
last episode I told you about UI layer and the data layer? Yes. So Redux works in
the data layer, okay? There is a UI layer, there is a data layer and Redux
works in the data layer of our application and UI and the data layer
works in sync and builds our own React app, right? And Redux works in the
data layer of our application. We will see how we can handle the data
effectively using Redux and I will show you all the code examples to create our
own store, manage our own store and like put data into it, retrieve data into it
and a lot of exciting stuff. So let's get started without wasting any time.
Before I start teaching you, first of all I wanted to share my experience of
using Redux in my career, okay? So I have seen a lot of projects that use
Redux. I have seen a lot of companies where Redux is used primarily and
let me tell you what major misconception that I have seen, right? What major
mistake I have seen in these companies. You know, they start using Redux from
first day itself, right? And they don't even think about the project and then
they just start using Redux out of the box. What I mean to say is, see, using
Redux from day one is not a problem. But I'm saying that Redux is not
mandatory. What I want to tell you is that Redux is not mandatory, my dear
friends. I have seen a lot of companies, they just build projects and they just
use Redux along with React. No matter what the state is, they don't think about
whether do we actually need Redux or not. They just start using Redux from
day one, right? Without even thinking whether we need Redux or not. So what
I am trying to say is, Redux is not mandatory in your application. Please
understand that. It's been like, it's today's 12th episode, right? We have
been building a food ordering app and we have built quite average, big, large
scale application and we have not yet used Redux, right? So basically and we
were still doing things. So what I'm trying to say is that Redux is not a
mandatory thing. First of all, first thing, right? You should remember it.
Note it down. Redux is not mandatory. You know, when you are building a
small application or even a mid-sized application, you don't need Redux. But
if you're building a large scale application where the data is heavily
used, where a lot of what you'll say read and write operations are happening
in your UI application, in your React application, there are a lot of components
and a lot of data data is being transferred between these components,
right? It's it's the application has grown huge. Then using Redux makes
sense. If you're building a small app, if you're building a very small app with
few components, you don't need Redux. And let me tell you all the applications
which are built using Redux can be built without using Redux also, okay?
So what I'm trying to say is Redux is not mandatory and use it only when it
is required. A lot of, you know, I have seen in companies, there are
developers, right? While I used to take interviews, right? They don't know
the difference between React and Redux. They feel that Redux is a part of
React. No, my dear friends, if you are the one watching the video and you
feel that Redux and React are one and the same thing,
no, my dear friends, Redux is a separate library, React is separate, okay?
So when you are building a React application, Redux is not required,
but you can use Redux if you really need to. Got it? So Redux is a separate
library which we import in our, right, which we basically install in our project
and then we use Redux capabilities or Redux superpowers, right?
So it's a different game altogether. So don't assume that, okay, Redux React is
the one and the same thing. And now in this episode, everything will be
clear. You would know exactly what is Redux and what is React and how are
they different, okay? So let us just begin by learning
what is Redux, but note down one point, right, that Redux is not mandatory in our
application and use wisely, right? Use Redux wisely and only when it is
required. And also let me tell you, let me first
of all, before moving ahead, right, let me also tell you that Redux is not
the only library, right? Redux is not the only library
that is used for managing state. There is a library which is known as Zastan.
Let me just show it to you. There's a library which is known as Zastan,
Zastan, right? So Zastan is another library
which is used for state management and it is gaining popularity a lot, right? It is
becoming very popular these days, right? It's a quite lightweight library
and a lot of companies and a lot of developers are using this, okay?
So go check out this also, right? What I am trying to say is that
don't depend heavily on Redux, right? You might use Redux, right?
And why, first of all, also let me tell you some advantages that why do we
use Redux? First of all, when you're building a large
scale application, Redux offers you a great solution for it, right?
Handling data, managing your store, right? You will get to know, right?
When we move ahead in this episode, right? You will get to see a lot more
advantages of Redux. But let me tell you that there are
other libraries also which are doing the same thing, okay?
So there is one library Zastan which is gaining popularity a lot.
In this course, in this Namaste React, I am not covering Zastan, okay?
But I would like to, like, I would like you to go ahead and explore it, right?
It's really nice. We will be talking about Redux in today's
in today's episode. We will be talking about this Redux, right?
And what parts of Redux that also I will let you know.
But Redux is primarily used for handling state of our application.
Another advantage of using Redux is that when we use Redux, right?
Our application becomes easier to debug, right?
Applications become easier to debug. Got it. So there is a Redux Chrome extension.
I will get, I will tell you about that also, right?
A lot of cool amazing things I will tell you in this episode, right?
Remember in the last episode I told you that just like we have React DevTools, right?
We also have a Redux DevTools with us, right?
That Redux DevTools helps us debug our application when we are using Redux.
Okay? So when we are managing state using Redux,
Redux DevTools will help us, right?
You will see everything in action with live examples as we move ahead in this episode.
So without wasting any time, let us just dive into learning Redux.
So now let us just go to Redux website and let me show you what actually Redux is, right?
So basically in your Redux website, it says that a predictable state container for
JS application. So it's not something which is tied to React, right?
It's not just used along with React, but it is popularly used with React.
That is why a lot of people say like, a lot of people think that React and Redux are
like one and the same thing, right? But let me tell you React, but let me tell you, sorry,
Redux offers state management, right? And it does not need to be a React application itself.
It works with other libraries and frameworks as well, okay?
But it is heavily used with React, okay?
So that is why it is popular, right? React and Redux is a very great combo.
And a lot of people use it, a lot of companies use it.
And let me tell you, it's really very great, right? It works smoothly.
And if you will see the Redux website, right? So they have React, Redux, right?
So there are two libraries that Redux team offers, right?
There are two libraries that Redux team offers, right?
First is React, Redux. So this React, Redux library is kind of like
a bridge between React and Redux, okay? So we will be using the React, Redux library today
in our application. And the other library that we will be using from Redux team, right?
From Redux, that is Redux toolkit, okay? So now, why we are using these libraries?
Let me tell you that earlier, right? In older days, we used to have a different way of writing
Redux, right? So there used to be a different way of writing Redux.
But what has happened now with the modern web development is coming up, right?
So Redux has simplified itself a lot, right? So a lot of tutorials you will find on the
Internet, it would be a older way of writing Redux. Today, in this episode, I am going to teach you
Redux toolkit, right? This Redux toolkit, this Redux toolkit is a newer way of writing Redux,
right? So I will be teaching you the latest, which is being used currently in the industry.
And if you are building a product today, if you are building a project today,
you don't have to use the older version of Redux or older way of writing Redux.
Today, we will be learning Redux toolkit. It is the standard way of writing Redux now,
okay? So this is the Redux toolkit, we will be using Redux toolkit, along with React Redux,
okay? We won't be using like the traditional vanilla Redux, right? Some people call it as
vanilla Redux, so we won't be using vanilla Redux. We will be using Redux toolkit, the latest way
of writing Redux, and we will be using React Redux, which is a library which is used to
bridge the gap between the two, right? So this is what I wanted to tell you.
Let us just explore what is Redux toolkit now, right? If I go to Redux toolkit, right? So why
Redux, right? So if you will read this, right, the purpose of Redux toolkit, it says that Redux
toolkit package is intended to be the standard way to write Redux logic, right? So earlier,
we used to write it in a different way in vanilla Redux. Now, we used to write in a
different way that is Redux toolkit, right, using Redux toolkit, and it's now a standard
way of writing Redux logic, okay? So if you are building project today, you want to use
Redux, use Redux toolkit, okay? That's my call and please do that. But then you would ask me,
Akshay, if Redux was there, there is separate vanilla Redux and there is a Redux toolkit,
what is the difference between the two? Why we use Redux toolkit? Okay, go ahead, read this
documentation. Everything has been mentioned. I really love their documentation. Please go
ahead and read it. Let me also show it to you. So see this, right? It was originally
created to address three common concerns about Redux, right? There were three major problems
with Redux that Redux toolkit solves. First is, Redux was very complicated. You know,
Redux used to be very complicated. And let me tell you, my dear friend,
Redux has a huge initial learning curve. It comes up with a huge initial learning curve.
You have to learn a lot of things, right? You will get to know, right? As we move ahead
in this episode and earlier while writing vanilla Redux, right? When we were writing vanilla Redux,
it was even more complicated. Redux toolkit has, you know, made it a little easier, right?
It is still a little complicated, I would say, right? But it is much more easier than what it
used to be, right? So Redux toolkit offers a very less complicated version of Redux, right?
And you will, you will get to see shortly, right? Other problem which it solved is that
we had to add a lot of packages to get Redux do useful things, okay? So Redux used to,
Redux used to need a lot of different packages, right? Then Redux used to become powerful, right?
But now we do not need much with Redux toolkit. Redux toolkit and React Redux,
two libraries will make our job done, okay? So that is what, right? That is what Redux
toolkit has solved, right? And why do we use Redux toolkit is requires too much of boiler
plate code, right? So Redux used to require too much of boiler plate code, right? And I'll let me tell
you a lot of people, a lot of developers who use React Redux, they used to copy paste older code
and paste it, right? And then they used to, right, modify it accordingly. And there used
to be a lot of copy paste while using Redux, right earlier. Now, if you will see the code,
right? The code is short. The code is sweet. And it does a lot of things out of the box.
That is why Redux toolkit is the best and the latest way of writing Redux. So please, please,
please use RTK, right? So Redux toolkit is also known as RTK. So if I say RTK,
that means Redux toolkit, right? So use RTK in your applications if you are building it right
now, right? And in our application, we will be using Redux toolkit the newer way. Got it?
So this was thing, right? And please, go ahead, read this documentation, you will get to know a lot
more amazing things about Redux toolkit. But now, let me just go and let's just start with
learning what is Redux toolkit. Okay, so first of all, what I will do is first of all, I will
explain you all the architecture of Redux toolkit, how things work, right? How things work
in the Redux toolkit, right? How things work inside it, right? And I will tell you the architecture
and the pieces and the components and a lot of jargons. And I will tell you a lot of theory.
Once we understand this theory, right? Once we understand this theory, writing code is a very
easy thing to do, right? Once you understand the theory, writing code is very easy, right?
So let get your notepad, get your notebook and pen quickly go run, get your notebook and
a pen, right? Because you have to take a lot of notes, I will be drawing and showing you a lot
of diagrams today. So you have to build those like draw your those diagrams along with me,
and you have to learn while drawing those diagrams. So get your notebook pen, right?
And let's meet quickly after a short break. Welcome back, my dear friends. Now, let us
just use Redux toolkit in our application. Okay, so first of all, let me tell you what
feature we are going to develop while we learn Redux, because this is project based learning.
So let me show you and develop a feature that will use Redux in our application. Okay,
so let us build something known as cart, right? So you already know the cart flow. So let us build
a cart flow. Where is a cart flow? What does that mean? Let me just show it to you. So let's
go to a restaurant. Come on, which one to go? Okay, let's go to Magna Foods, right?
So let's go to Magna Foods, this restaurant. So what we are going to build now is
if I click on this ad, right? So let us build a cart flow. So when I click on this ad button,
it should go this item should go inside my cart, right? We have this cart over here, right?
So it should go inside my cart. And let us also build a cart page, right? So let us build a cart
page, right? You might have seen on the food ordering website, right? Let me just show it
to you what we are going to build. So in swiggy.com, if I go to swiggy.com, right?
So if I add something into the cart, okay? So let me just show it to you. So if I go over here,
let's go to KFC maybe, right? If I go to KFC, and if I add this into the cart,
so see this, right? In the cart, it increased to one, isn't it? So if I add this to cart,
so the cart becomes two. So similarly, what we are going to do is we will add these items
to the cart, right? So it should show on the top also, right? What we will do?
We will show something like cart hyphen two items, three items, four items and something like that.
And if I click on it, we will go to a cart page, right? Just like swiggy has a cart page, right?
If I click on this, we go to a cart page where we see what all items are there in my cart,
and we can build this kind of feature, right? And to store all these cart information, right?
To store all these cart information, we will be using our redux store, understood?
This is the feature we are going to build, and let us just start building it. But before
we write any code, first of all, I will explain you the architecture of redux, right? And,
sorry, not redux, redux toolkit, okay? So if I say redux now, that means redux toolkit, okay?
So let us just see the architecture of redux, how things work. Let us see a lot of theory,
right? And then we will go on to writing code. So let me get my notebook and pen with me,
and then let's get started. So I am back with my notebook and pen with me. Hope you also have a
notebook and pen with you. So let us just start seeing what is the redux architecture all about,
okay? So we were building the cart feature. So we will be building something like add to cart,
right? If you click on the menu item, it should add to the cart, right? So suppose we have
our website like this, I will be going a little slow. So just pay attention, right?
Please pay attention. This is very, very, very important, okay? So please pay attention. So
suppose this is our website, right? So here is our website. This is the header of our website.
Here we have our logo, right? Suppose here we have our logo, and now here is our cart, right?
So suppose this is our cart, right? Pardon my drawing, I am trying to build a cart with
some wheels in it, okay? And then the cart can have multiple items, right? Whatever we can,
we can add items to the cart, okay? So suppose this is a menu page, right? Suppose this is a page
of Meghna Biryani, right? So let's let's call this as Meghna Biryani, right? Meghna Biryani,
this is a restaurant, right? And there is a menu of Meghna Biryani. There are suppose three
items, right? There are a lot of items, right? But suppose there are three items, four items,
like there are tons of items which we can choose from, right? And these three items,
we have an add button over here, right? Suppose here is an add button over here, right? We have
an add button here, got it? So what happens when we click on this add button, right? So this is
our Meghna Biryani menu page, right? Or any restaurant menu page, here are the items,
right? Here are the items that I can add into the cart. What happens when I click on the add
button? How will this add button item send the items to the cart, right? How will they go in the
cart? This is what I am going to explain you using Redux Store. Just please pay attention to
all what I say, right? And in the card, as in when we add, right? If I click on add over
here, right? If I click on add for the first item, what should happen? Here one should come
up, right? If I add another item, here two should come up. If I add another item,
here three should come up, got it? So it should be something like this. Let us see how we can
build this, right? So in this cart, we also show the number of items over here, right?
We also show the number of items over here, got it? So now we will be using Redux for our
application for managing the data of our application. Okay, so what is a Redux Store,
my dear friends? First of all, let me tell you what is a Redux Store. So Redux Store is nothing
but a big old object. You can assume that Redux Store is a big object and it is kept in a central
global place. Okay, so listen to me very carefully. Redux Store is kind of like a
very big JavaScript object with a lot of data inside it and it is kept in a global central
place. Okay, so let us just try to visualize how my Redux Store looks like, right? So suppose this
is my Redux Store, right? This is my Redux Store. Assume that this is a central place, right? And
any component can access it inside our application. In a React application, any component can access
this Redux Store, it can write data, it can read data from that store and it is like a very big
object, right? Very big object and it is kept in a central place and we keep all the data of
our application, not all the data but most of the major data of our application into this Redux
Store. Got it? And you know, this is a Redux Store. But I want to ask you a question.
I want to ask you a question. Is it a good practice to keep all the data inside the
whole big object, right? In the one big whole state object, is it good to keep all the data inside it?
Yes. Let me tell you my dear friends, it is absolutely fine. There is no problem with
keeping a very big object with a lot of data inside it. It is completely absolutely fine.
But so that our Redux Store does not becomes very big, very clumsy, we have something
known as slices inside our Redux Store, right? So think of it, right? So suppose this is our whole
big Redux Store, right? Which we have, which I have made from the red pen, right? So we have this,
we have parts of our Redux Store, which is known as slices, right? So what I am drawing right
now are the slices of our Redux Store. So you can assume a slice to be a small portion
of our Redux Store, okay? Small portion of our Redux Store, right? And we create multiple slices
inside our Redux Store. This is one slice, okay? This is a slice inside our Redux Store. Got it?
So now I want to ask you that why do we need slices and what are these slices actually, right?
So let us take an example of our application, right? This food ordering application.
What can be different slices inside our Redux Store, right? Let me tell you what can be slices
to keep data separate, right? To we make logical partitions and these logical partitions are
slices. So assume that suppose if we want to add card data into our Redux Store, we will
create a separate slice for a card data. Suppose if we want to keep logged in user info inside
our Redux Store, so we will create a user slice kind of thing, right? It's a user slice. We can
create a card slice. What else data can we keep inside our Redux Store? We can keep information
about like something like themes, right? Dark theme, light theme, and maybe theme colors and
different type of logos and all that stuff, right? Theme related, UI related. So we can
create a display card or maybe a user card or a theme card. So whatever you need to
create, right? We will create logical separations and we will make small slices inside our Redux Store,
okay? So this is what is a slice. Keep taking down notes, right? This is a slice, right? What can
be a slice? There can be a card slice, right? There can be a user slice. There can be different
type of slices, right? There can be theme slice. There can be more, right? Whatever you want
to do, right? There can be a slice for it. Got it? But so we will create a card slice, right?
And it, this card slice will now hold all the data of the card, right? Initially,
initially, this card can be empty, right? It can be an empty array. But later on,
as we put data inside it, it can just modify the card slice, right? Data inside the card
slice. Got it? So this is the Redux slice. Now, when I click on this add button, right? When I
click on this add button, how does the data go inside this card slice? How will the data go?
It's not simple, right? We can't directly add data to the card slice.
Redux says that you cannot directly modify your card slice. You cannot directly modify your
card slice, okay? There is a way we can do that. What is that way? Let me just explain it to you.
So what suppose if I click on this add button, I will have to dispatch and action, okay? Listen
to me carefully. There will be a lot of jargons which will be coming up. Keep taking now notes.
It's really very important. So when you click on this add button, right? When you click on this
add button, it dispatches an action, right? It dispatches an action. Let me write it down.
It dispatches, dispatch action, right? Dispatches and action, right? Dispatch is an action.
What happens after dispatching an action, right? It calls a function, right? It calls a function,
function right it calls a function I am trying to make a function over here or let me just
make a beautiful thing right this is an action let's call this as action and here I have
a function f in right so now first of all when you click on this add button over here
it dispatches an action right note the word dispatch note the word action right and
then it calls this function and this function modifies the card got it let me
repeat it once again when you click on this add button it will dispatch an action
right and then this action will then call a function and this function will
actually modify the card we can directly actually modify this card
redux says that whenever you have to modify your card right I am repeating
it once again right please take keeping keep taking down notes please keep draw
drawing along with me okay when you click on this add button listen to me very
carefully when you click on the if you understand this thing right what am I
teaching right now writing code is very easy very very easy trust me right so
when you click on this add button it dispatches an action that calls a
function and this function internally modifies the card this function
internally modifies the card let me just show it to you like this right let me
just make it a little zoom right let me make it a little zoom okay so let me make
it a little zoom over here right so when you click on this add button it
dispatches an action right and it dispatches an action this action calls
a function and this function modifies the card got it now what is this function
actually right what is this function this function is basically known as a
reducer okay what is this function known as it is known as a reducer got it so we
have learned some jargon's first is dispatch an action there is a reducer
function got it so now if I have to say it again I will say when you click on this
add button it dispatches an action calls a reducer function and this reducer
function modifies our card right so basically if I have to repeat it once
again listen to this very carefully right you know understand this if you
understand this it will become very easy for you I am repeating it once
again note down this line proper line right I am repeating this line please note
down this line when you call then you hit the add button when you press the add
button it dispatches an action which calls the reducer function which updates
the slice of our reducer store listen to me very carefully once again when we
click on this add button it dispatches an action which calls the reducer
function which modifies the slice which updates the slice of our reducer store got
it which updates the slice of our reducer store let me repeat it once again right
one last time for you right one last time for you right when we click on this
add button it dispatches an action which calls a reducer function which
updates the slice of our reducer store easy right if you will see it it's very
very easy dispatch an action reducer function modifies the slice of our
reducer store right there are a lot of jargons I know dispatch action reducer
and then slice and then store and all that stuff but it's very easy make this
diagram with you it's very easy if you understand this it life will become
very easy for you right redux using redux will become very easy for you right now
this is kind of like and then our slice will be updated right and then our
slice will be updated the data will be updated right this item will be added to
our slice right we can't directly add it we have to go through this path we
have to go through this path when we are using redux why we do all this
right now a question would be coming to your head why are we doing why are
we making things complicated it is not complicated it is it makes our life
easier right I'll tell you the answer to this later on right when we will write
code okay so don't worry about it but for now just learn that when we click on
this ad button it dispatches an action which calls the reducer function
that modifies the slice of our redux store very easy and we have written the
data inside it now our cart slice right the cart will have this redux store
cart portion will have that cart slice will have some data inside it what it so
this was how to write data suppose I want to read data right suppose now I have
added this cart item now I want to get this data over here right this item over
here the number over here should change right suppose if we had three items
before and I added one more item so it should change to four right how can
read data right so what we have seen how to write data using this action dispatch
function reducer now we will see how to read data sorry we have seen how to write
data now we will see how to read data from this card and get over here right
how can we get data from this card over here how can we get data from this
cart over here I will see for that we use right for that we use something known as a
selector okay so listen to very carefully we use something known as a selector
okay so note it down selector okay so what will happen is we will use a selector
to read the data from our store and this selector will modify our react component
right so this is how you read data let me repeat it once again so you will suppose
if you want to read this data over here from the cart slice over here right in this component
in this header component how will you do you will use a selector and this selector will
basically give you data over here selector will give you data over here right and there is one more jargon
right the last one trust me it's the last one that is known as when we use selector right
so this phenomena is known as subscribing to the store subscribing to the store subscribing
to the store note it down right so basically now let me let me revise the read now right let me
revise the read now once again right so we say that header component is subscribed to our store
right subscribe to our store and when I say subscribe the store basically it is in sync
with the store right if the data inside my store changes my header component will update automatically
right react will right react this redux will automatically update the data inside header
as soon as my store changes that is why we call this as subscribing to the store so basically
our header component over here has subscribed to the store right and how do you subscribe
using a selector using a selector note down this keyword selector okay so this is all is
redux my dear friend if you understand this in theory writing code is very very easy my
dear friends very very very very very easy I'm telling you it will be very easy okay so let
me just repeat everything once again hold read write everything once again okay so when you
click on this add button it dispatches an action which calls the reducer function which modifies the
slice of the store which modifies the slice of the store and this slice of the store and
and you know this header component is subscribed to this to the store right header component
subscribed to the store using a selector right so this is how the whole flow works this is how
the whole cycle works right so when I click on this ad button right see what we will see on the screen
right our screen will be this only right we will only be able to see this we won't see all this right
we won't see redux store we will just see this so what will happen is we will click on this
ad button and this will update right the data over there will be updated to four how so
basically behind the scenes what is happening this is what I'm trying to say when you click
on this ad button here the data will update but how the data will get update so when you click on
this ad button we will dispatch an action that will move that will call the reducer function that
reducer function will update the slice right and because this component is subscribed to this
store right using a selector it will automatically update so when you click on this ad button
and the data on the top will change all this is happening behind the scenes
and you have to understand this properly I want to make it very easy for you you know a lot of
you a lot of people use redux they don't understand how they use redux they just copy paste code
here in their right stuff make it work but now I want to actually tell you what actually
redux is right how do we how do we write and read from redux how what happens behind the scenes
okay so you don't just have to copy paste I want you to know what is happening behind the scenes
okay so once again right once again let us just revise it for the last time and then we will
go and write code for all of that and let me tell you my dear friends it will become very
easy to write code if you understand this okay so if you understand this it will become
very easy to write code now again right so let me tell you let me write it once again right so first
of all if you click on the ad button right if you click on this ad button right if you click on this
ad button what happens if you click on this ad button it will call a it will dispatch an action
what will happen it will dispatch action I am writing it once again it will dispatch an action
what will happen after that it will call a reducer function right I want to go slow you
must be thinking that Akshay why are you repeating again again because it is important my dear
friends when we click on this ad button it dispatches an action right which calls this
function what is this function this is a reducer function which calls a reducer function
which updates which updates the this is a reducer store right this is which updates the
slice of our store right so basically slice of our stores let me write it down like this slice
of our reducer store right this is our store right this reducer function will update the slice
of our reducer store and our component right our cart component where is our cart component
right here is our cart right this cart component or this header component right over here this
header component is subscribed right is subscribed to the store using a selector is subscribed
subscribed to the store using a selector.
So as you so let me repeat it once again this if you click on this add button it dispatches
an action which calls a reducer function which which updates the slice of the store
and because this component is subscribed to the store using a selector it will automatically
got updated right this will be updated right this this when you click on this add button
when you will click on this add button this card will be the card will be updated right
and everything all this will happen behind the scenes got it so hope you have understood
the theory remember this line and remember this diagram in your head things will become very
very easy now we will take reference of this diagram whenever we are coding and you will
see that it is very easy to write code if we understand this diagram ok so that's all
the theory part my dear friends take a screenshot of this if you want to right take a screenshot
of this on the screen right and then and then let us just dive into the code right and let
us take a quick break I know it can be a little overwhelming let us take a short break and
then we will come back and we will now write code for all this you will see everything
happening inside action this is all is redux right if you understand this redux is very
easy for you right so if you understand this redux is very easy for you all this is redux
and please take a screenshot and let's meet let's meet after a break till then please revise
this please note down this diagram in your notebooks let's take a break I'll see you
very soon welcome back my dear friends enough of theory we have seen a lot of theory we
have seen a lot of architecture of our app and we have seen how redux works in the theory
now let us just write code now let us just build this store now let us just build our
slices inside our store let us see how we can write code for everything that we saw
in the diagram remember right whatever we saw our store our slices all these action
dispatch reducer subscribing selector everything we will see now in the code ok so we
are going to see all this exciting stuff so let's get started ok so we have our app
over here so first of all let's build our store let's go with the first step right
let's go with the first step let's build our store ok so let's build our store ok so let
me first of all tell you what all we will be doing right so here I am in the read me
file right in the read me file let's keep taking down notes right hashtag redux right heading
is redux or maybe let's write it as redux toolkit toolkit so first of all right first
thing is we will build what we will do ok let us just write down all these steps first
of all right let's just write down all these steps and then we will write code
for it right so first thing we will do is even before doing this right first of
all we will install right first of all we will install install libraries right what
libraries do we will be install in our project right redux is not there in our
app what we will install yes we will install redux toolkit and what else there
were two libraries right the actual library name is at the rate redux
toolkit right so if you will see the actual name of the library is redux yes
toolkit so we will be installing redux yes toolkit and we will install second
library which is known as react redux ok we will install react redux these are
the two libraries we will install right we will need these two libraries to
work with redux got it so we will install these two libraries ok now a lot of
people must be thinking why there is at the rate with the name why they
have kept the name like this to be honest I don't know redux team thought that this
name would have been cool for the library so they have kept this but this is
exactly same as name of some other thing right so basically it's just a name it
has nothing to do with at the rate or that slash right redux j s redux j s slash
toolkit is the name of the library so if you'll go to npm right so you'll
find it like this redux toolkit toolkit right toolkit ok if you'll search that
so see you have to install it like this right at the rate redux j s toolkit
right the name of their library is like this right you can keep it like this so
they have kept it they might have found this cool so they have used this but
it's just like a normal library don't think that it is something else if we
are writing at the rate right a lot of students you know why am I telling you
because a lot of students when I was teaching react right last time a lot of
students had this question so I wanted to like just tell you the answer for it
right so basically first of all we will install these libraries then we will
build our own store okay so we will build our own store then we will build
our slice or maybe first we will build our store then we will connect our
store right we will connect our store to our app okay connect our store to our
app okay so we will connect our store to our app right we have built a store now
we will connect it right we will make a bridge remember the bridge cool so we
will connect our store to the app then what we will do we will create a
slice right we will create a slice or maybe let's call this as card slice right
We will create a cart slice right to add items to the cart, okay.
So once we have created these slides then we will basically then we will basically dispatch
action remember we used to do dispatch action we will dispatch an action when we click
on that when we click on that add button we dispatch an action right we will do all
that stuff and then we will also read the data using selector okay we will see what
is selector okay we will see all of this one by one so let's get to the first one
which is installing the two libraries okay I will do npm install and I will write
at the rate redux js slash toolkit okay so this will install redux toolkit RTK in
our application and it will modify our package.json it will add this redux
js toolkit to our application the latest version of it we are using the current latest version
which is 1.9.5 okay so we whatever we are learning we are using the latest of everything
right which is available today in the market so that we are not working on
anything old right we want to work with the latest of everything whatever we do
right let's in let's install the second package which is redux react redux sorry
right react redux these two packages are super important you know let meanwhile it
is installing oh it installed already but let me tell you a thing earlier you know
when we used to have redux so we used to use a lot of different packages to
make redux super powerful right now we just need these two libraries that's
all two libraries and job will be done so we also have a react redux with us
8.1.1 got it so we have these two libraries installed with us now let's
just start building our own store okay so how do we build our own store right let
me just show it to you so we will build our own store inside our utils okay so
we have our components we have our utils so I am just creating a new file and
let's call that as maybe store right let's call that as or maybe let's call
that as app store right our application store app store.js okay let's create our
app store so we'll write const app store over here right const app store and we
will use a function which is known as configure store to create our own store
right so basically we will use something known as configure store right
and where will we get this function right where will we get this function
this configure store configure store will come from will come from our redux
toolkit got it this configure store comes from our redux toolkit and this
configure store will will give us our store of our react application got it
this is how you build an app store right we have built this store right we will
add slices to it right what is inside store there are slices we will add slices
to it later but first of all let me just export default my app store okay so I
have created this store right right now we have not added anything inside it we
will be adding inside it right we will add slices inside it don't worry
about it right so we will add right but for now we have just created this
app store now let's go and provide this store to our application we will provide
this store to our application okay now we will add this store to our application
how will we do that so for that let me go to app.js right listen to me very
carefully so what is the root of our application our root of our application
is this right so here is our application div class name application so we need
to provide our store to this application let me just move it down or maybe just
let me just collapse it right now we need to provide we need to provide our store
to our application how do we provide it let me just show you we will need
something known as a provider right and that we will be importing again from
provider that we will be importing again from our react redux now see very
carefully this configure store you know there is a difference between two libraries
this redux js toolkit or rtk library has has things to do with redux right so creating a
store is a redux thing right that is why this configure store comes from redux toolkit
but now right now we have to provide provide this store to our react application right so it's kind
of like a bridge between our react application and redux so that is why this provider comes from
react redux I am telling you my dear friends I want to dive deep into these small things right
what library is importing like what what functions what utilities are you importing
from which libraries I feel I personally as a teacher feel these things are very very important
some of these students who are watching this videos might be getting bored Akshay why are you
telling all these import things right we can use auto import and all these things will come up
automatically no my dear friends you should know everything question everything keep your
curiosity alive keep your curiosity alive why provider is coming from react redux why
configure store is coming from redux toolkit why because this configuring store is a redux job
providing it to react application is react redux job got it providing we are providing
inside a react application that is why this provider is coming from react redux got it
so this is how we do that we will import this provider now how do we provide to our app
so basically we will wrap whole our application in that provider just like we use this user
context or provider similarly we will use the provider which we have imported from our redux
right so I will write provider right I will write a provider over here and this provider
and we will provide the store right we will pass the store as props over here right
so we will pass the store as props over here right so this is our provider and this is the store right
remember this key is very important you know right this provider has been exported from that
react redux library right somebody react redux library who would have written this react
redux library they would have exported this provider and it takes store as a prop right
and what store it will take it will take app store over here right app store right it
will take app store over here and this app store will be imported from our util slash app store right
this store we have provided to our application now right we have provided this store over here
so basically we have wrapped our whole app inside this store now suppose if you don't want your
whole app to have redux right suppose if you want only small portion of your app to use
redux so you can just provide your store to that specific portion of the app what it but
wherever you need to use app right wherever you need to use store you have to like wrap everything
inside this provider got it just like our context provider right just like our context
provider we have a redux store provider hope you would have understood it now we have created
our store we have added we have provided our store to the app now what is the third step
let us now start creating slices right that small slice let's create a cart slice okay
let's create a cart slice got it let's create a cart slice so how do you create a cart slice
I will create another file and let me create a file in utils only right you can basically keep
a folder for all redux slices and stores but I am just putting it in the utils right you can
keep a separate folder upon you how you want to manage your folder structure but you can keep
it inside utils as well so I am just keeping it inside utils this is my cart slice.js right
so now how do you create a slice so I will create a cart slice cart slice and this cart
slice will be created by a function which is known as create slice very easy right we can use create
slice so create slice this again this create slice comes from our redux.js toolkit right
because it's something which is related to redux now this cart slice is a function right
this is a function and this function takes a configuration to create a slice right it takes
a configuration the first thing that we have to give it is the name of the slice right let's
give it a name which is known as cart right let's name it cart right the first configuration that
it takes is a cart now the second configuration it takes is initial state right it takes
initial state the second configuration is initial state what basically initially that cart slice
will be right basically what will be the cart items what it it takes the initial state right now let
me give this initial state as items right and let me give it as an items and this items is an empty
object or maybe empty array right so right now our cart is empty okay so this is our initial
state of our slice got it and then we have something known as reducers right here we will
write those reducer functions remember those reducer functions we will write reducer functions
corresponding to those actions got it we will create actions and reducers over here right so
there is a reducer and reducer is again an object and now we will write those reducer
functions corresponding to each action okay what is action what is reducer you will get to know in a
second right you will get to know so what is a action right an action is something known as
so so what can be different type of actions inside a cart you can add an item you can
remove an item you can clear the cart right so these things are actions right actions are
basically what they will say it's kind of like small apis right you can think of it as apis to
communicate with reducer right you can think of it as apis to communicate with reducer right
so if you want to add an item so I will dispatch the add items right so let me create it right you
will understand it properly so this is a this is an action and there is a reducer function
which is mapped to this right this reducer function basically actually modifies the data inside the
slice remember now let me show you diagram once again so basically this dispatch action right this
action right over here this action is basically this add item right and this reducer function
right when you click on this add button it dispatches an action and this reducer function
is basically the function this function is the reducer function right and this reducer function
basically modifies your cart basically modifies the slice of your store how do you modify the
slice of the store so basically it gets gets access to this state right the initial state
is empty array right this gets access to the state and now it it gets access to state and
it also gets action to it also get it's also get access to this action right so this is our
reducer function right remember this carefully this is our reducer function it gets two parameters
a state and an action and now it will modify our state based on the action if you don't understand
it properly you will understand this don't worry right don't worry you will understand it properly
now I am going to modify my state this state is basically this state right this is the initial
state we get access to the state right of our store how do we modify it I will do something
like suppose if I get an item so I will do something like state.items and items is an
array right so I will do a state.items.push and I will push an action.payload inside it
I will push the action.payload inside it okay now you would be thinking that what is this action
what is this payload don't worry everything will make sense right assume that see when we will dispatch
when we will click on that button we will we will add item right so we will get this payload
when we will call this add item when we will dispatch this function right don't worry everything
will make sense let's just write reducers first first reducer is this let's write another reducer
and let's call this as remove item right remove item or maybe let's write as clear card right clear our
card okay so first let's write remove item right okay let's remove item remove item remove item
okay and this remove item is again we have a reducer it takes state and action and now
and now right over here I can again do a state.items and I can remove my I can remove my item from
this array right I can remove my item from this array for now I am just doing a pop right I am
removing one item from the end right I am removing one item from the end but what you
can do is you can just find out action.payload.right find out the index right so basically
if suppose there are three items added so which one so you can figure out what item to add and
then write the logic over here right write the logic of updating the state accordingly right I am just
I am just removing one item from the top right for the sake of simplicity right and then let's
create one more one more reducer function which is clear card okay this is reducer function right
let's write this reducer function state and this reducer function this reducer function don't need
an action right so basically it it has this action right but we won't be needing it why
because we want to clear this card right how do you clear this card I will do a state.items
and I will do a so basically I have to make an empty empty I have to make an empty array
I have to make an empty array so I can do something like state.length.zero right this will make my
items as empty again right suppose if there are suppose if there are 10 items in the card it
will make it zero right so over here I don't need action so I can just avoid it right I can
just avoid writing action over here okay over here also I don't need action right I just
avoid it if you need action then you can just add action right over here right now everything
will make sense right when we call this for now just understand this is the card slice right
if you are getting confused don't worry this is the card slice right we have created a card
slice what will this card slice has the first thing is name right the name of the card slice
the second thing is initial state what is the initial value of that portion of that store right
in the redux store what is the initial value and then some some reducers right some actions and
reducer functions which will modify this right which will modify the state right so how do we
modify the state we can just modify using these reducer functions this is the reducer function
got it now what we will do we will export two things from here we will export our actions
we will export our reducers okay we will export our actions we will export our reducers right now
now we will do a export default of export default of card slice dot reducer right I will do a
card slice dot reducer I will do a card slice dot reducer right I will just do a card slice
dot reducer I will export it export the reducer this is how we export the reducer and I will do a
export constant right and I will export my card slice dot actions right I also want to export
my card slice dot actions right I want to export my card slice dot actions but what I want to export
I see see when I will tell you why I am writing in this syntax react redux redux toolkit gives us
this syntax right this is not a syntax which I have created you must be thinking why are you
doing all this Akshay react redux toolkit gives us that this is how you have to use it right
so don't worry it's very easy by the way right just it might be feeling very tough at the beginning
but it is very easy you have to just write it once you will understand it so what I am doing is
I am just exporting by default my reducer and now I am doing a export constant I want to export
my actions and I want to take out these actions first of all right what are the actions I want
to export I want to export add item I want to export remove item and I want to export
clear card right so basically this is how you export the actions this is the slice these are the
actions and this is the reducer we have exported our actions we have exported our reducer got it
now a lot of people will be confused Akshay what is this we don't understand this let me
tell you what happened behind the scenes okay we let's drive deep right so what will happen is
when you will do a create slice right this create slice functions will return an object in this card
slice right and this card slice object will look something like this it will have actions right
it will have actions and this actions will have this add items and all that stuff right add item
add item okay and there will be reducer reducer right so so card slice will be kind of like a big
object which has actions and reducers right so we are doing a export default card slice
dot reducer right we are reducing this we are just giving this reducer and we are doing card
slice dot actions and we are taking out these actions individually right these actions we are
taking out individually and exporting it got it it is very simple just play with it you will
understand it right so basically okay so okay a lot of people might be finding confusing right
shall I write it once again shall I write it once again let me just write it once again okay
let me just write it once again and explain everything once again okay it will be very easy
for you right this time you will be able to understand it right I am not afraid of teaching
to you again and again right I am not afraid to teach you again and again this is my job and
I love to teach I love to make complex things easy it is complex for a lot of people right
a lot of people don't even know what they are writing they just copy paste I want you all to
be able to write it yourself don't don't just copy paste or memorize it just write it yourself
it's very easy how do we create a how do we create a card slice card slice right first
of all I will do a create slice right this create slice will take a config this config will
have a name let's call it card and it will take an initial state this initial state will be what
right initial state is an object this object has a items right this items are basically
card items initially I am giving it as empty array right and then we will have reducers
right we will have reducers reducers is basically an object right this object has
different type of actions that we can take right what we can take what type of actions we can take
we can add item we can do a remove item right we can do a remove item we can clear card right we
can do all that right we can perform all these actions and for each corresponding this we will
have this reducer functions right basically this is a reducer function right this is basically a
reducer function with the name add item but this will map to an action right so we have this add
item right there is a reducer function how do we modify a state of this right we will modify
the state based on our action right so we will do a state dot items dot push action dot payload
okay so whatever we will pass in to this function so we will pass some data into this function
right we will pass the data into this reducer function we will see it very soon right and we
will just add this item over here got it similarly how we will remove an item right you can write
all complex logic over here my dear friends but I want to keep it simple that is why I am just
doing a state dot items dot pop right state dot items dot yeah you can do splice and all that
stuff but I want to do pop right just I will just remove it from the end right and how to do a clear
card right how to do a clear card I will basically do a state dot items dot length is equal to zero
I will just make my item zero right I will make this items empty again I will do a length of zero
you know length of zero will make your will make your state as empty array okay cool now now
now you must be thinking Akshay why you did not do this right a lot of people must be
thinking why you did not do this there is a reason this will not work there is a reason
this will not work okay I'll tell you right I'll tell you got it so I'll tell you later on
but for now keep that thought awake right please hold on to that thought now I have created this slice
now I want to export right first of all I will export default my create slice dot reducer right
easy I will I will just and then I will also export my and then all I will also export
my actions right what actions will I export right and where will I export my actions from
I will export my actions from my card slice dot actions right card slice dot actions got it
I will export it from here and it is I have written create slice right it should be card slice
my bad right card slice dot reducer and here is we have card slice dot actions and what all
actions do we want to export I want to export my add item I want to export my remove item and
I want to export all of them basically right I have exported this is how we create a slice is
it very tough it's very easy just write it down yourself you will you will understand it yourself
right it's very easy now when we have built this slice I want to add this slice to my store
isn't it my store is empty right now I want to add this slice to my store how do you add it
so basically you add it like this you create a reducer right this is basically a main read
see now let me just tell you why why this is a reducer so if you want to modify a store right
if you modify a big store it also has a reducer for itself and that reducer combines reducers of
their slices right so this basically reducer is responsible to modify the app store right
and this reducer is basically a combination of different small stores right for each slice
we will have a different reducer right so that is why we will write we will basically import
our reducer right we will import we exported reducer from here right we will import this
reducer in our app store right we will import our cart reducer cart reducer from my cart reducer from
my dot slash cart slice right I will import this reducer and now what I will do I will do a cart
and then I will do a cart reducer so basically this reducer is basically our apps big reducer
and it consists of small reducer from different slices each slice will have its own reducer right
each slice will have its own reducer so this is a big reducer for our whole app suppose if we had
multiple slices suppose if we had a user slice also so we would have we would have added our
user reducer also over here user reducer also over here got it so let me repeat it once again
so we have this reducer this whole big reducer is our app reducer right and then this reducer
contains small reducers of all each slice right for each slice there is a reducer and we will just
add all these reducers inside it right and that's all we have to do in our store we have configured
our slice now that's all we have to do my dear friends we have plugged in all these things
we have plugged in all these things we have created a let me just rewrite it once again till here right
so initially I created a store right I use configure store I added a reducer right this reducer
and this reducer this is a big reducer this reducer contains small reducers we have added
the cart reducer because we have just one slice right now right we have this cart reducer
this cart reducer come from our cart slice we created the slice we added a name to the slice
we added initial state what is the initial value of that cart right and then we added reducers right
different type of actions right that we can perform and this reducers are basically modifying our
state note down that we are mutating our state over here right it is important to note we are
mutating we are directly modifying the state over here mutating the state over here the state
we are mutating the state over here we are basically the existing state right this state that we get
we are just we are just modifying that state itself right so this is what we are doing it over here
and then we have just exported our actions that's all we have done and we have also provided
our app right we have provided we have added a provider to our store right to our whole app
right we have added a provider now our app is provided anywhere now let us just see
let us just see can we read data from our app let us just see can we read data from our app over
here right let us just try to read the cart oh my god our app is not running our app is not
running okay let's just start our app with npm start start okay npm start okay and let me just
close this up again can let me close this terminal again let me just refresh our page got it now let
us just try to read now let us just try to read the data from the cart right how will I read
the data from the cart remember how will I read so basically I want to show how many items are
there in this cart right on the top over here on the top of my app on the header I want to show
how many items are there in the cart right so how will I show that remember the diagram remember
the diagram we have to subscribe to the store right we have to subscribe to the store using a
selector so basically now we will use a selector to subscribe to our store got it how do we
subscribe to our store let us go to the header.js so this header.js has this cart right over here
this is the cart right this is this cart over here right so maybe let me just make it bold right so that
it is very much visible right let me just make it bold and big okay so let me just give it
font bold okay let me just copy paste font bold right let me just make it bold and let me also
increase the text right let me give it text excel I am just doing this to show you right and over here
in front of this cart I want to show how many items are there in my cart right suppose if there are
zero items initially I want to show something like this see this so here is our cart and we have
zero item so instead of this cart you can add that cart logo or icon whatever you wish to right
over here I am just writing cart over here you can add that fancy cart logo okay so icon
whatever right so add that icon over here right so right now we have this zero items right now I
want to show basically how many items are there in the cart real time right so suppose if my cart
let's make this initial state let's add some items into the cart right what what can we add to
our cart let's add maybe let's add a burger okay let's add a burger to our cart let's add
let's add a pizza to our cart right let's add pizza to our cart okay let's add burger and pizza
to our cart right I'm just adding some dummy values now when I will read over here it should
show me two items it should show me two items got it so it should show me two items
so how do I read it so basically we will use a selector and what is a selector a selector
is nothing but a hook inside react right we will use a selector and selector is a hook inside react
how do you use a hook and what is hook at the end of the day what is hook at the end of the day
a hook is a normal javascript function isn't it so we will have a selector and that is known as
use selector right use selector hook right and this use selector hook comes from react redux library
right this use selector hooks hook is coming from my react redux library so how do we use use selector
hook so basically this hook will gives us access to the store right give us access to the store
now we are basically what we are doing is we are subscribing to the store using a selector
got it we are subscribing to the store using our selector so what happens is this use selector
hook gives us access to our store right gives us access to our store but we will now tell them
what portion of your store we need access to suppose I need access to my store dot
card dot items I just need access to my store dot card dot items so this selector basically
helps us identify what portion of our store I need to read right and I need to subscribe to
you can call why I am telling you all this why I am using it again and again
read the store subscribe the store because this is a common lingo when you will go in the industry
when you will talk to other developers they will say you are subscribing to the store you should
understand what does it mean that is why I am diving deep into all these nitty gritty details
because I want all my students to be very good at redux because you never know right
I want you to use redux right in your companies wherever you want to manage data in your application
so be really good at it pick up this lingo right we are subscribing to the store right and what
portion of the store we are just subscribing to the small portion right that card dot items we are
just concerned about this we don't want store dot user we don't want store dot theme or
something like that right I don't want that I just want to subscribe to my items
quite it I want to subscribe to my items when you write like this now this cart will get the
data of this items quite it this cart will get the data of this items and that's all my dear friends
that's all and let me make this as cart items right to make it more easy to read
so basically this cart items will basically contains this items store items so we have
subscribed to the store dot cart dot items and whenever my items will modify my cart
items will modify and how do I use my cart items now I can just use my cart items over here I can
just write a jsx and I can do cart items dot length right give me the length of my cart items
and let me just save it let me just save it let me put a hyphen here let me just save it
if I go back to my UI do you see this my dear friends we have got these two items over here
we have got these two items over here how did this two come up this is all we have to do to read
thus read the store this is all we have to do to read the store if I do a console dot log
over here and do a cart items let's see what is there let me remove this console log login
user right over here right let me do a console log of cart items right let me do a console
log of cart items and let us see what we have gotten right if I inspect if I go to the console
do you see this let me refresh the page do you see this we have got this burger pizza
we have got this burger pizza with us two items in the cart
got it so this is how you read items from the store how we have done this right we have subscribed
to the store using the selector we have subscribing to the store using the selector and the selector
basically gives us access to the whole store and we just want to subscribe to the small portion
of that store that is items that is store dot cart dot items right store dot cart dot items
got it so this is what I wanted to tell you this is how we read it now let us just add items we have
added dummy items to our cart right let's not use these right let's not use this let's make it empty
once again let us use the real world items right let us use the real world items in our app we have
this right we have this magna foods let's let's go over here let's add these right
paneer 65 320 rupees let's add this item if I click on this add it should it should basically add to
the cart right it should add to the cart over here can we add it can we add it how do we add it right
let's write some logic on this add button right where is that add button this add button is
basically inside my restaurant menu no that add button is basically inside my item list yes
here is our ad button right the ad button is inside my item list got it so here is my ad button
now on click of this button right on click of this button okay what do we have to do on click
of this button remember that whole statement on click of the when you click on that ad button
what happens yes my dear friends you have to dispatch an action now I will show you how to
dispatch an action right now I will show you on dispatch and action right on click of this button
we will call right this is a callback handler right on click right on click just okay right
on click of this button I want to dispatch an action dispatch and action let's not write it
over here right it will become very clumsy right let me just add a handle add item handle add
item right I am just writing this function on the top you can write it over here also but I am writing
it on the top so that it is very much visible to you okay let me just collapse this okay cool
so handle item handle add item is on click right I am writing it clearly right so that it's
visible you can add a function directly over here also right but I want to show it over here
right so constant it's one and the same thing okay so handle add item so now I want to handle
the ad item from here got it so basically handle ad item now as soon as somebody clicks on this
ad button I want to add item right ad item I want to dispatch an action right so I want
to dispatch an action right I will dispatch an action now see clearly how I dispatch an action
now see clearly how do I dispatch an action first of all I need access to something known as dispatch
something known as dispatch this dispatch is a function that we get from a hook that is known
as use dispatch right and this use dispatch hook is again given to us by react redux just like we
have use selector for reading for dispatching we have use dispatch right so we have this use dispatch
hook we get access to the dispatch and this dispatch is a function right and I want to dispatch
an action now right I want to dispatch an action now and what is that action I want to dispatch an
action remember we exported some actions from here right remember we exported some actions from
our slice this ad item remove item clear item so I want to dispatch this action basically
right so what I will do is I will dispatch first of all I will import that action right I
will import that ad item action right from my cart slice right I have imported ad item and now I
will dispatch this action right I will dispatch this action and now whatever I will pass inside this
whatever I will pass inside this will go inside my cart right whatever suppose if I add my pizza
over here right if I add my pizza over here that is my action dot payload do you understand
everything is making sense now you can connect the dots whatever I will pass in over here in
this action this will go to my reducer function right this will go to my reducer function action
and that too inside a payload right when you will write right so this action dot payload
got it so over here this action dot payload will be pizza got it so but remember one thing right
you must be thinking this state is the first argument this is the second argument
internally Redux is managing everything I am telling you you know Redux you know to be very
honest as a teacher right I feel Redux is a very bad library to teach because you know
it has a lot of initial learning curve and let me tell you this is still easy Vanilla Redux is
very very like it's it's even more messy I am telling you it's even more complicated than
this but this is the simplest I can break down I am telling you so Redux has done what right whenever
you dispatch this action right so what Redux will do it will take whatever data you are passing in
it will create an you know what it will do it will basically create an object right out of it
I'll show you what what Redux will do behind the scenes whenever you will call this right
whenever you will dispatch this action Redux will create a object and it will create
a payload inside this object and it will add whatever data you have added to this object
and it will take this object right it will take this object when you will dispatch this action
right it will take this object and pass it as the second argument over here right it will
add this object right it will pass the second argument over here so when you will do action
dot payload you will get this pizza here react has abstracted everything behind the scenes
react is working redux sorry redux has abstracted everything behind the scenes redux is using
something like this ok this object could be even more complicated but it is working
something like this behind the scenes got it.
So if you will write action dot payload and you might be thinking that I have not
sent payload over here don't worry whatever you sent over here it will go inside this action
dot payload ok so you kind of have to remember that there is an action dot payload and whatever
you will pass in from here will go inside over here right let me just save it right and
let me just click this let me just click this add button and let us see whether pizza
got added to our cart or not right if I go back if I refresh my page let me go and click
on any add item right if I click on this add item if I click on this see this we have
seen this one items right and pizza got added to the cart if I click on it once again see
this two pizzas were added if I click on it once again see this three pizzas and
it is auto magically getting updated do you see this selector we have in the header
right in the header we have used selector we have sub we are subscribed to the store
whenever my store is getting modified whenever my store is getting modified it is changing
it is changing this right whenever my store is getting modified is changing things inside
header right we have subscribed to the store right over here so whenever I am whenever I
am clicking on that add button it is modifying the store and it is changing it right this
whole thing is working behind the scenes. Do you see this? Whenever I am clicking on this
ad button, an action is dispatched which calls a reducer function which updates the slice of the
store and because my header is subscribed to the store using a selector, everything is working
seamlessly fine. Oh my God my dear friends, isn't it amazing? We click on this ad button
and there is a count increase over here. But behind these scenes, Redux is doing a lot of things for
us. Redux is doing a lot of things for us. Got it? So Redux is doing a lot of things for us
behind the scenes my dear friends. Okay, so this is how we basically completed the whole
loop, right? Remember that whole thing? If you click on that ad button and action is dispatched
ad item and then a reducer function is called, you exactly know what reducer function, right?
Remember this reducer function. Now you can map all the theory with practical, right? This reducer
function is getting called here, right? And dispatching an action which where we are
dispatching the action in my item list.js, here we are dispatching this action. Got it?
When we dispatch an action, a reducer function is called which updates the slice. We have
updated the slice and then we have updated the slice and then because we have subscribed
using the selector, right? Where is the selector in the header.js? We have this selector. We have
subscribed to these items, right? So now it is automatically getting updated on the top.
This is how the whole cycle works of read and write inside Redux. Got it? This is the
basic fundamentals of Redux. Now I won't leave you like this, right? Let's build this feature
properly, right? We have just added dummy data, pizza, pizza, pizza, right? Let's not add pizza,
pizza over here, right? Let's try to add real items into the card, right? Let's try to add
this real items into the card. And let's try to build a cart page also, right? If I click
on this, let's create a cart page where we will see all that cart info. Got it? So let's see
that, right? Let's see that. Let's build it. Why? Right? So right now I'm just passing pizza over
here where we are passing pizza, right? Right now we are passing pizza. Instead, I want to pass that
specific item which is clicked, right? I want to pass in this specific. Suppose if I click on
this, I want to pass in paneer 65, right? So how do I pass in specific item? So over here,
we are iterating over these items, right? So I want to pass specific item, this item
over here, right? So let me pass this item into my handle item, right? So let me just
add it as a function. Don't do this mistake. I have seen a lot of people doing this mistake.
Don't do this mistake. Don't write it. So if you will write like this, that means you have
called this function already. You have to do something like this, right? Think, this is also
an interview question. You know, I ask, I have seen a lot of people. Oh my God,
they don't know the difference between this. I know a lot of, and I bet, I bet that all of you
who are watching this video might not know the difference. What will happen if we do this, right?
They will not know the difference between this, right? What is this, right? Take it down as a
homework, right? Take this down as a homework. What is the difference between all these three,
right? What is the difference between all these three? You should exactly know how this will work.
I am not going into the details of, right? All of them, right? I am not going into the
details of all of them, but you should exactly know what is the difference. It is normal
JavaScript, my dear friends. This is not even React. Normal JavaScript. What will be the
difference if I will write like this, if I will write like this, and if I will write like
this, okay? So this is basically calling the function right away. I don't want to call a
function right away. I want to pass a callback function. Got it? So I will be using this, right?
I will be using this, okay? So, but you should know the difference. I am telling you you should
know the difference. If any Namaste React batch student does not know the difference between
this, it is not expected, right? It's not expected, my dear friends. I am telling you I will
thrash you if you will, if you will make a mistake in this, right? A lot of people make
mistakes in this, telling you, right? So please use this, right? Please understand how it works,
but I will now pass this item inside my handle item and I can now use this item over here and I
can pass my item inside my, I can add this item into the card. Now this item will be a big
object, right? Big object of this, right? Big object of this, okay? Let me refresh the page,
right? We have added this item. Let us just go back and let us see if what happens when we
click on this add button. If I click on this add button, see this? We have updated the card.
We have got this one card over here, right? We have got this paneer 65 added into our card,
right? And we have got one item into the card, right? We have got this one item into the card.
Let me add one more, right? Let me add Golden Babycorn also, right? Let us click on this.
See this? There are two items into the card. See this? We have added two items to the card,
right? Golden Babycorn is also added to the card. Got it? We have got these two items over
here. We have got these two items over here. Amazing, right? We have got these two items
over here. Now, let us just try to build our card page, right? If I click on this, it should
go to the card page and let us display the card details, okay? Let's display the card details.
Let's go build this quickly. Nothing, nothing extra we are doing. We are doing very easy
stuff now, right? We have already done how to create a component, right? Let's create a functional
component card.js. We are creating a new page, right? Let's create a functional component,
functional component at the end of the day is basically nothing but a normal JavaScript function.
We are writing an arrow function, which returns some piece of JSX, right? This returns some
piece of JSX. Let's return a div and let's call it cart, right? Let's call it cart and let's
export our default cart. Got it? So, we have created this cart component. Now, we will have to,
right? Now, what we will do in this cart and let me just, let me just create a URL, right?
slash cart, right? If I, if I create a URL, right? Okay. So, here we have this URL, right?
In our app router. So, let's add one more route. Let's call it as cart, right? If we have a path
as slash cart, if we have a path as slash cart, then render my cart component, right?
Element should be cart component, okay? Cart component. And this cart component comes from
import from cart component comes from my component slash cart. Alright, so we have added this.
Now, let me go to the header, right? Let me also create a link. If I click on this cart,
it should take me to the cart page, okay? So, let me create a link. Where is my cart? Where is
my cart? Where is my cart cart cart cart? Here is it, right? Here is the cart, right? So,
let me add a link to it. Let me copy paste from on the top, right? Let me just copy paste and
let me just create a link like this, right? Instead of grocery, I've added cart and slash
cart. Got it. So, we have created a link to this cart. Got it. So, let me close our header.
Let me close my app. We have our cart.js over here. Let's go back, right? Let me go to the
cart page. If I see, it's clickable now. If I click on this, it take me to the cart page. Oh,
my God, it looks very ugly. It's look very small. Let's add some CSS to my cart and
make it look beautiful. How can I make it look beautiful? Okay, okay, okay, let's,
let's add a H1. First of all, let me just add some CSS, right? Let's use tailwind, right? When we
have tailwind, let's quickly add some CSS. Let me give with a width. Okay, let me first of all,
align all the content to center, right? Text center. Okay, and then let me give it some margin,
right? Margin or padding, right? Margin of 10 and padding of 10. Got it. So, I have given
margin padding of 10. And let me also give it, right? Suppose done like this, right? And let me now
add a H1 tag. And let's call this as cart, right? This is cart. Okay, and let's give it a text
Excel, or maybe let's call it as to Excel. And let me make it font bold. Okay, I'm making the font
bold. Okay, cool. So we have added this cart and it looks beautiful, right in the middle
and bold, right? Oh, I think I have added a lot of margin and padding. Let me reduce some margin
and padding from the top, right? M10, it's, it's huge, right? Let's give it M4 and P4 maybe, right?
M4 P4. Cool. This looks better, right? So we have our cart. Now let us show the cart items
below. How do I show my cart items below, right? How will I show my card? First of all,
how will I read my cart? How will I read my cart? How will I read the cart info?
How will I read that cart from the store? You are absolutely right, we will have to subscribe to
the store, right? We will again be subscribing, right? I want my cart items over here also, right?
I will add my cart items. How will I subscribe using use selector, right? If I use my use
selector, SELE selector, right? This use selector comes from React Redux. This use selector basically
gives you access to the whole store, but we want access to only a small part of store, that is store
dot cart dot items, okay? I am just concerned about this, right? So I will get my cart items
over here. I will get my cart items over here. Now what I have to do is, let me just show my
cart items below, right? How will I show my cart items below? Here, I will show my cart items,
okay? I will show my cart items, right? First of all, let me add some cart items, right?
There are zero items over here. So if I go back to home, so how will I show my cart items?
Maybe let's go back to my Magna Foods. Where was my Magna Foods? Here is my Magna Foods, right? If I go
back to my items, let's use the same UI, right? Let's use the same UI. We have already created
item list, right? There is an item list here. Cool. We have this component already. Let
us reuse the component, right? So this item list component basically gives us the list of
this item, right? We can expand collapse. We can expand collapse this, isn't it? We can
expand collapse this item list. So let's use the item list, which we already have, okay?
Let's use the same, right? Can we use the same, right? Let us see, right? If we can use the
same item list, right? Item list. And what does that item list take, right? What is the input
of that item list? So basically, see item list takes items over here, right? So let's give it
items, right? Item list, see, this is a good reuse, right? That is why we make our components
such in such a way that we can reuse it, right? I can make items, right? And then we can add
an item, right? And then we can pass in our cart items here. Got it? We can pass our cart
items over here in my item list, right? Let us just see if it works. I am just
fingers crossed. I am just guessing if it works or not, right? I am just doing a blind thing.
Add, if I click on this ad, I have added my paneer 65 cart item is one. Let me add one more
item, right? Let me add golden baby corn. If I click on this button, we have added two
items to our cart. Shall we go to the cart page? If I go to my cart page, let me click on
this cart. See this, we have got these two items in our cart. Amazing. It is not looking very beautiful,
but again, bear with me, right? I mean, it is, it is, we have added items to the cart. Cool, right?
Let us add some CSS to make it look better. First of all, I do not want this width to be
full. I want this width to be small, right? Let me give it a width of, width of maybe
6 by 12, right? Half of it, right? Half of the screen or maybe not even half. I want it to be,
okay, let us give it half and see how it looks. Let me give it margin of auto, right? Let me give
it margin of auto. Let us see how it looks, right? Cool. It looks much better, isn't it?
Or maybe I think we need to give some padding and maybe border or something, right? Here,
we can give some borders. You can make it as beautiful as possible. I am just showing
you how we can do that, right? Cool. So we have made our cart, my dear friends. We have got the
cart data inside our app also, right? If I click on this, I will get all the data of my cart items,
right? I will get data all the data of my cart items. See this, right? If I log it,
I have all the info of my cart, basically the price of it, basically the name of it.
I can build any feature over here I want to, right? If suppose I want to, okay,
suppose if I want to build one more feature of clear cart, right? We have a clear cart action,
right? Let us build a feature of clear cart from here, right? Let us build a feature of clear
cart from here, right? I have a lot of time. Don't worry, my dear friends. Let us build a clear
cart, right? Let us add a button, right? Let us add a button. Let us add a button and
and let's add a button and let's call it as clear card, right?
Let's build this, right?
Clear card, it's an important feature, right?
We would definitely need clear card button, right?
This clear card button, okay, this looks very ugly.
Let me make it look like a button, it looks like a text.
So basically let me give it padding margin,
padding of two, margin of two,
and then basically I want to give it background color
of maybe background BG of black, maybe?
Okay, BG of black, let's give it text white, okay?
Text of white, text of white over here,
and then what else?
Okay, I think that's it, I think this should work.
Okay, we have this clear card button.
Let me make rounded corners also, right?
Rounded corners looks cool, rounded LG.
Cool, so we have rounded corner,
we have a clear card button with us.
If I click on this clear card, it should clear my card, right?
You can align it somewhere, right?
Like make it align, I just did a center line over here.
It should clear my card, right?
Let us, how do we, if I click on that button,
what should have happened?
It should dispatch an action, you're absolutely right, right?
Let me right on click, right?
Let me right on click, method over here, right?
On click, and on click, I can create a function, right?
Let's handle clear card, handle clear card, okay?
Handle clear card function, right?
And then let's add a function handle clear card, right?
Const function handle clear card, sorry,
handle clear card, right?
This handle clear card will basically dispatch an action.
Hope you are understanding this, right?
I'm not doing anything new.
It is all I have already taught you.
How to dispatch an action from here?
I will just use a dispatch, right?
First of all, I need that dispatch function.
How do you get that dispatch function?
Very easy, my dear friends.
Use dispatch, we will, we will use dispatch, right?
You, we will use dispatch, okay?
So we have this use dispatch, and then, okay, not there,
right, we will use this use dispatch,
and this use dispatch will give me this dispatch function.
Now I can just dispatch my action, right?
I can dispatch my action.
What action should I dispatch?
Yes, clear card.
And this clear card will come from my card slice, right?
We have exported this clear card,
will come from card slice, right?
So we have added this handle card,
I have added this on click.
You know, once we have set up this store,
how easy was it to build this feature, right?
It just took us two minutes.
Okay, use dispatch is not defined.
We have not imported use dispatch.
Import the use dispatch, import use dispatch from,
import my use dispatch from my React Redux.
Cool, I have imported you.
So did you see how easy was it to build this, right?
Let me click on this button, right?
If I click on this button, if I click,
oh, nothing happened, oh my God.
Something wrong, something wrong.
In our code, let us see, handle clear card.
We have handle clear card.
We dispatch, oh, we did not call it, right?
Sorry, my bad, right?
We did not call it.
We have just passed it like this.
Now, let me go back.
If I click on clear card, see this.
Our card is vanished now.
Our card is vanished now, right?
Our card is vanished.
You can also show if the items are zero, right?
If our items are zero, right?
You can just show, right?
If the items are zero, just display a message
that add items to cart or something, right?
How will you add that, how will you add that feature?
Let me just write it also, right?
So if the cart items dot length, very easy, right?
I'm not doing anything extra, right?
If my cart items dot length is equal, equal to zero,
right?
Is equal, equal to zero, equal, equal, equal to zero.
Then you can say, then you can basically add
and you can add a H1 tag, right?
You can add a H1 tag over here, right?
And say, please your cart, cart is empty, empty.
Add items to the cart, right?
You can display a good message, right?
You have seen Amazon, right?
When the cart is empty, they say that, okay,
go do some more shopping and something like that, right?
You can add these things.
You can build all these features.
Why I'm telling you that you can, they see this,
add items to the cart.
You can build all this.
I have already shown you how to build important features.
You can build these customizations yourself.
Isn't it?
Is it hard?
Since so much time, since 11 episodes
I'm teaching you react, very easy.
This is nothing new.
Let's go and add items to the cart now.
Let's go to Meghna Biryani, right?
What happened?
Cannot read, right?
Let's go to, let's go to some,
let's go to this Leon's Burger and Wings, right?
Let's go to Leon's Burger and Wings over here.
Let's add some items to the cart, right?
Let's add this Grilled Lamb Burger combo, right?
Let's add it, right?
Jumbo, Royal Burger combo.
Let's add Grilled Peri Peri Chicken, right?
We have added three items.
Let's go to cart, see this.
Now we have three items in the cart.
Cool, right?
So we can build features like this.
It's amazing and all the data you need
is already there with you.
This is what is Redux Store, my dear friends.
This is all is the history of Redux Store.
I'm telling you, this is the most important thing.
A lot of developers just write Redux,
but they don't understand how it works behind the scenes.
I wanted to tell you what Redux Store is, right?
Okay, so hope you have understood this diagram.
This is what, right?
Remember that, let me just repeat that line once again.
When you click on that add button,
it dispatches an action which calls a reducer function,
which updates the slice of the store.
And because this component, right?
Header component is subscribed to the store
using a selector.
It automatically gets updated.
It automatically gets updated.
Got it?
This is amazing thing.
This is what I wanted to teach you in Redux.
But is Redux only this?
No, there are some more important things
which I wanted to tell you.
Just hold on for a while.
Now we have written this,
but let me tell you one more important interview question
which a lot of interviewers will ask
and you should basically know it.
One interview question is, right?
I am just basically trying to recap things
and I want to tell you a few points, right?
While you are points where you need to be careful
while using Redux, right?
First thing is, whenever you are doing a selector, right?
Whenever you are doing a selector,
make sure, make sure you are subscribing
to the right portion of the store, right?
Make sure you are subscribing
to the right portion of the store, right?
Here you can optimize the performance, right?
So if you don't, see, if you don't subscribe
to the right portion of the store,
it will be a big performance loss.
Let me tell you why, right?
Remember this, take this down as a note,
very important thing, very, very important, right?
See, I can do this, I can do this also, right?
I can do something like this, right?
I can do a store, right?
And I can just add,
I can just get access to all my store, right?
Whole store, and now I can extract my cart items,
cart items from this store.cart.items.
Both this code is same.
The code which I wrote earlier,
the code which I, what was that code
which I wrote earlier?
It was this code, right?
See, and then what was this code?
See, see the difference between these two code.
See, earlier we were writing like this, right?
I want to show you the difference, right?
It's very important, right?
See this, so earlier I was writing the code like this.
Earlier I was writing it like this, right?
I was just subscribing to the small portion of the store,
right?
I was subscribing to this portion of the store.
Now I'm subscribing to the whole store
and I'm extracting my items.
It will work like this also, right?
If you will do like this,
it will work perfectly fine, right?
It will work perfectly fine.
See this, it is working perfectly fine.
But, but, but, this is very less efficient.
Very, very less efficient.
When you are giving interviews,
where if you are using Redux in your interviews,
definitely tell this thing to your interviewer.
You will impress your interviewer.
Or whenever you are using Redux,
please be careful while using this selector.
What happens is when you write like this, right?
So basically, this store variable is subscribed
to the Redux store.
Whenever anything changes inside the store,
your cart component will get to know.
Basically, your store, your store, right?
This store variable will be updated
whenever anything changes in the store
and whole store, right?
So you don't want to change,
you don't want updates,
you don't want to subscribe to updates of whole store, right?
See, suppose if something is happening
inside another slice, right?
Suppose if the user logged in,
it has nothing to do with cart, right?
So why is this store variable subscribed to that store, right?
So it will get, so you know,
anything will change in store, right?
Anything will change.
So when the, when our application grows huge, right?
Oh my God, I've been speaking since a lot of time.
But let me tell you, right?
When our application grows huge,
our store becomes very big.
So anything random changes in our store,
I don't want this component to be affected by it, right?
I don't want to subscribe to my whole store.
It is foolish.
A better performance way is to only subscribe
to a specific portion of the store.
Never do this.
Never ever do this, right?
Never do this.
Always subscribe to a small portion of the store, right?
It is very much efficient.
When you will write like this, right?
When you will write a selector, write this.
Why do we, why is it name selector, right?
The name is selector, the name is selector
because you are selecting a portion of the store, okay?
That's why it is selector, got it?
So you are subscribing to the selected portion
of the store.
Try to speak it up, right?
Your vocabulary will be improved.
You are trying, you are selecting, right?
You are selecting a specific portion of that store, right?
This items.
So now when you will write like this,
this cart items will only update
when my store.card.items change, that small items,
it has nothing to do with anything happening
outside the scope of this, right?
It is only subscribed to cart items.
So Redux is a powerful, heavy tool, right?
Redux is a powerful, heavy tool,
but we should be careful while using this.
This is one thing which I wanted to tell you, my dear friends.
This is a major mistakes with people make,
major mistake which people make, okay?
So be careful with it.
Second mistake that people do a lot is when they are built,
see, there is a lot of confusion
between reducers, reducers, reducers and reducers, right?
So let me tell you when you are creating an app store, right?
So here this keyword is reducer,
because this is one big reducer,
one big reducer for your app store, right?
And this reducer can have multiple small reducers.
Got it?
So this word is reducer.
Listen to it very carefully, this is reducer, okay?
But when we are writing slice, right?
We create multiple reducers.
So this word is reducers, right?
I know it is very complicated, right?
I have been struggling to teach this to my students,
but when I give them this logic, they remember it
and then they never forget.
This is, you know, when you know behind the scenes
that what is happening, why Redux has named it like that,
things become very easy, you will not make mistake.
So when you are writing this store, right?
This is one reducer for the whole app
and it can contain multiple small reducers, right?
This cart reducer, it can have user reducer,
theme reducer, but when you are creating a slice, right?
So there are multiple small reducer functions, right?
That is why this is one reducer function.
So that is why this is known as reducers, right?
This is reducers, right?
And when you are exporting it, when you are exporting it,
you are reducing, you are exporting
just one reducer from it.
So basically, you know, what is a reducer
at the end of the day?
Reducer is nothing but a combination
of different small reducers, right?
A reducer can be a combination of small reducers, right?
So this app store is a combination of
this small reducers of these slices
and this reducer is a combination
of these small reducer functions.
So this is one reducer that I'm exporting, right?
But here we have multiple reducers.
That is why it is reducers.
Got it?
I don't know how you will remember it.
How will you keep it in your head?
But please note it down.
A lot of people get confused with this, right?
Two things.
Use selector very carefully.
Use this reducers.
Use this reducer and reducers keyword very carefully.
Let me tell you one more important thing, right?
Earlier, right?
Let me tell you the history of Redux, right?
I don't know.
I want to stop this session right now.
I wanted to stop this episode right now,
but I am in a mood to tell you a lot of things
about Redux, right?
Let me tell you, right?
What is there, right?
If you want to leave, you can leave,
but I would say that don't leave, please.
These things will be very important
when you will give interviews
and it will just increase your foundations very strong, right?
I am not, I want to teach you, right?
As much as I can, okay?
So please stay here, right?
Please, right?
I am also getting what I'll say.
I am also getting a little, what I'll say.
It's been a lot of,
it's been a while I'm speaking continuously,
but again, right?
Let me drink water.
Maybe you can also drink water, right?
And then maybe pause the video, drink water,
and then come back again.
So now, let me tell you one more important thing
with reducers because this is very important.
So earlier, when we used to write vanilla Redux, right?
When we used to write vanilla Redux,
the older version of Redux,
there was a big, big, big problem with state here,
when we used to write these reducer functions
in vanilla Redux,
we used to, you know,
Redux used to shout on their website
and it used to gives us clear warning
that don't mutate state.
Don't mutate state, right?
So we should not mutate the state, right?
Vanilla Redux, right?
Older Redux, vanilla Redux.
Or you can call this as vanilla
or maybe older Redux.
Older, older Redux, right?
Older Redux, in older Redux,
you know what happens?
Redux used to say, don't mutate state.
Don't mutate state.
This was prohibited inside the older version of state, right?
This was prohibited.
Right now, I am just directly modifying my state, right?
Right now, I am just directly modifying my state.
Basically, whatever state I will get as an input,
I am just directly modifying it.
This is an impure function, isn't it?
This is an impure function, right?
It is just, we are taking this
and we are just modifying this variable as it is.
Earlier, when we used to write Redux, right?
So we used to never modify our store.
Basically, how we used to do,
let me just show it to you, how we used to do.
Basically, we used to create a copy
of this state variable, right?
We used to create a copy of this state variable
and then we used to push, right?
Basically, we used to create a new, right?
We used to create a new state, right?
From my state, right?
Basically, I used to create a new state from my state.
Basically, somewhat like this, dot, dot, dot state, okay?
I will create a new state
and I will now modify my new state, right?
I will modify my new state, right?
This is how we used to do earlier.
I'll tell you, right?
This is how we used to do earlier.
New state, dot items dot push
and then we used to return this new state.
Got it?
We used to return this new state.
We used to do this earlier, right?
We used to do this earlier
because Redux used to say,
never modify, don't mutate the state.
Don't mutate.
And you know, so many developers,
I think so many developers used to make this mistake
and they used to modify this state directly.
Because it is very tough.
You know, I'll tell you, you know,
we can learn an important thing from here, right?
Redux is an external library.
Sometimes, sometimes,
this library comes with a lot of burden
of knowledge with us, right?
If we have to use this library,
we have to learn a lot of things that,
okay, I don't want to mutate that state.
I want to create a store.
You need to subscribe.
You need to add action, dispatch,
then reducers and this, that, so many jargons
and it just confuses the developer so much.
And people, a lot of developers,
so many developers used to make this mistake
of mutating the state.
So in the newer, in Redux Toolkit,
in Redux Toolkit, right, whatever we are using,
Redux gives us option
that we can modify the,
we can, we have to mutate the state.
And it does not give us option.
We actually have to mutate the state.
Mutate the state.
We actually have to mutate the state, right?
And you know, when Redux made this change,
again, there was an army of developers
who came up and said, Redux, Redux,
this is very bad.
Why are you letting people mutate the state?
It's very bad.
People who come from vanilla Redux to Redux Toolkit,
they find it very hard.
They find it very hard.
But let me tell you,
now we can mutate the state over here.
And in fact, we have to mutate the state now, okay?
This is what the new API says, right?
Why I'm telling you all this theory?
Because you know, people who are working
in older version of Redux,
you will know exactly what the pain point is, right?
And now, Redux has solved this.
In your interviews, you can explain it, right?
Because if you do this in the interviewer
and your interviewer might say,
oh, you have a mutated this state.
So you can back your answer up with a solid argument, right?
Now, okay, right?
So let me repeat once again,
in the older version of Redux,
Redux used to say, never mutate the state.
Don't mutate state.
But in the latest Redux Toolkit,
we have to mutate the state, right?
Whatever we get the state over here,
we have to mutate it.
According to the action, right?
We change it, right?
When we do items.push,
that means we are modifying the existing state over here.
And then this is how we do it.
Got it?
So this is how we do it.
And we just mutate
and we don't have to return anything.
Earlier, returning was mandatory.
Don't mutate state.
And returning was mandatory.
Was kind of mandatory.
Was mandatory, right?
Or kind of mandatory, right?
So basically we used to return this new state.
We used to take the state, return this new state.
Now, returning is also not mandatory.
Now you just modify the state
and returning is not mandatory.
Redux take care of it.
Or to magically react.
Redux does not force you to return anything from here.
Got it?
This is the latest way of writing Redux.
But now, let me also tell you an important thing.
If we are mutating over here, right?
Let me write over here, right?
We have to mutate it, right?
We have to mutate the state.
If we are mutating the state over here,
listen to me very carefully.
If we are mutating the state over here, right?
If I'm mutating my state over here,
then what is Redux doing behind the scenes?
You know what Redux is doing?
Redux is creating an immutable state.
You know, whatever logic I showed you, right?
All this, Redux is still doing all that.
Redux is still doing you all that, right?
But it is not asking developers to do it, right?
When I, as a developer, am using Redux,
I am writing my reducer function.
I have to just mutate the state.
And it works perfectly fine.
But behind the scenes,
