FILE: Episode 12 - Let's build our store.part002.mp3
LANG: en
PROB: 1.000

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

perfectly fine.
But behind the scenes, Redux is actually doing something like this and React, Redux uses
something known as imr, there is a library known as imr, this imrjs.
This library imr, Redux uses this imr library to do this.
So basically, imr library is kind of like finding the difference between the original state,
the mutated state and then gives you back the new state which is a immutable state, a new
copy of the state.
Whatever I was writing that logic, all that logic has been abstracted, we as a developer
don't have to take care of it and imr takes care of it.
Go read it.
You know, I did not want it to go dive deep into all this, this is so much deep and let
me tell you, 99% of the people won't know about all this, who are using Redux in their day-to-day
life.
Very less people know about it, but I want you all to be really good developers, be curious.
I am curious, I want to tell you, imr in itself is a huge library, Redux in itself
is a huge library.
I don't want to go into very much detail, dive much deep, but I want you all to, you know,
I have kept one episode for Redux, I can't teach Redux in one episode, it's huge.
And this is not Namaste Redux that I dive deep into like every small corner of Redux,
but I want to cover as much as I can in this episode.
I want to cover, otherwise there is so much to learn inside Redux.
Every library comes, you know, when I was building Namaste React, I thought I will not
even cover Redux, but then I thought, okay, let me keep one episode for covering Redux,
because you know, Redux needs a separate Namaste Redux in itself.
It's so huge, it's so impressive, it's so amazing.
So I want you all to go and read Redux documentation, see what Redux has to offer.
See, EMR, Redux behind the scenes uses EMR, and EMR basically, you know, I'll show you,
they have a good diagram also in their website somewhere.
See, it's a tiny package that allows to work with immutable state.
Is it visible?
Let me just expand it, immutable state in a more convenient way, read this.
If your interviewer ask you, or I don't think interviewers themselves don't know,
but if you are an interviewer, tell your interviewer, they will be impressed by your knowledge, okay?
So this is a EMR, where is the diagram?
There is one diagram also here, yes, see this.
So what EMR does is basically takes the existing state, takes this new state,
and then gives you the diff of that state, right?
Kind of, it's find out the diff of this state, whatever you have mutated,
it will take the original state, it will take the new state,
it will calculate the diff and it will give you a new state, right?
To the redux, and redux uses it.
So behind the scenes, things are still working the same,
but for developers, we don't have to worry about writing a pure function, right?
Lot of people used to make this mistake.
Lot of developers used to make this mistake.
I'm telling you, right?
And I am telling you that people who have used redux sometime would also know this, right?
Making a mistake was very common over here, right?
Reducer function used to be very large, big and all that stuff.
Many developers don't even know how to actually write an immutable object.
You know, the problem is many developers, you know,
who don't understand JavaScript properly,
they don't even know how to create an immutable state object here.
If the object is nested, right?
See, right now the object is very easy, right?
Suppose if the data is huge, nested at a lot of levels,
people don't even know how to create a deep clone of it, right?
They don't even know how to create an immutable copy of it, right?
It's very sad, but then people don't know JavaScript properly
and then they just start writing redux.
But anyways, right?
We don't have to worry about them right now, right?
We can directly mutate the state, even do whatever you wish to, right?
And return is also not mandatory, right?
Return is also not mandatory.
And redux toolkit uses imr behind the scenes,
imr behind the scenes, b behind the scenes, bts.
Got it, uses imr.js, right?
Imr is again a library.
So this is why, and let me tell you one more thing, okay?
Okay, I keep, it's coming to my mind.
That is why I told you, right?
We cannot do something like state is equals to this.
Because if you will modify state is equals to directly, right?
It won't work.
If you will write state is equals to this, it won't work.
If you will write state is equals to Akshay,
this won't work, right?
This won't work.
Should I show you, right?
Let me just show it to you once, right?
If I clear my cart, it won't work, right?
If I do a cart, won't get this, right?
Let me refresh the page, let me go back.
Let me add some items to the cart.
Let me add some items to the cart, right?
Let's go to Magna Foods,
and let me add this item to the cart.
Let me add this item, let me add this item.
Come over here.
See this, and let me just,
let me just do a console log, right?
Let me just do a,
huh, let me just click on clear cart, right?
If I click on clear cart, see nothing is happening.
Why?
See, why nothing is happening in clear cart, right?
I am doing this, state is equals to Akshay.
It won't work like this,
because Imer, you know,
you will get answer to this question
when you will go through Imer, right?
You will have to understand how Imer works, right?
So basically when you do this, right?
So basically you are not modifying the state.
You are just changing the reference to it.
I am giving you a hint out of it.
You are not actually modifying,
you are not mutating the state.
You are, you are not mutating the state.
If you are doing it like this,
you are just adding a reference of it, understood?
So there is a difference, right?
I don't know, it is very tough for me to teach also
with half knowledge, right?
I have to give you a lot of context
if I have to explain you.
See, so basically, you know, what I'm trying to say,
it is not actually mutating the state, right?
You are, when you do like this,
it is not actually mutating the state.
It is just adding a reference to it.
Got it?
It is just adding a reference to it.
So in this case, if you have to make it empty,
you have to actually mutate the state, right?
You have to actually mutate the state
and you can mutate by using this, right?
You can mutate by using this.
Got it?
This will basically make your state as,
state is equals to this, okay?
This will basically, you know why?
Because see, when an object will be passed into this,
see this state is a local variable.
Let me try to explain it in one more way.
This state is a local variable, right?
This state is a local variable, right?
What value will it have?
It will have a value which will be a original state, right?
That original state, right?
That original state will be passed in over here.
So you actually have to modify it.
You actually have to modify it.
If you do something like this, right?
So it will change the value of this state, right?
And this state is a local variable, right?
This state is a local variable.
And it will just do the changes locally.
It will not modify the actual state
which was passed over here, right?
Suppose, okay, I'll try to explain it.
Over here, what will be passed, right?
Redux will pass in,
suppose our cart has some item already inside it, right?
PIZZ, I am working very,
I'm trying as hard as possible to explain you.
Suppose if this pizza passed over here, right?
If I do this, right?
So I am not actually modifying this.
Let's call this as original state, right?
Original state is equals to this, right?
So now when I pass this originals,
I receive a original state over here.
What is this state?
This state is a local variable, right?
So now this state will become,
if I do a console log of state over here,
console log of state over here, right?
Console log of state over here,
it will give me what?
It will give me pizza, right?
It will give me pizza.
Suppose if I do state is equals to empty
and do a console log again over here, right?
If I do a console log of again over here, right?
let me just comment this, if I do a console log of state over here, it will give me empty.
But when I did this right, it actually did not modify this array, this array is different
than this array.
So I actually have to modify my original state, okay, I have to actually modify my
original state.
If I will do something like this, state is equals to empty, it will just make my
state empty.
So it just made this local variable empty, but then pizza remained the same pizza remained
the same.
Got it?
Pizza remained the same.
Make sense or not?
Make sense, right?
Cool.
I'll show it to you, right?
It will make this empty, but things won't change, right?
Let me just show it to you.
Let me save it and show it to you, right?
If I go back, see, if I if I add some items in the cart, right?
So I'll show you what happens, right?
If I add some items in the cart, right?
Let me add two items, right?
In the cart, if I go back over here, right?
If I try to clear it, see this, right?
It showed that earlier we had earlier we had some two items in the cart, right?
Earlier this state had two items, right?
There are two items.
Basically it is reduced.
That is why it is not showing it properly, right?
Okay.
And now sometimes, okay, glad that I got over here, okay?
One more thing, one more interesting thing, I can't see it right now, right?
I have just tried to console log my state and I can't do it, right?
It is not letting me show it properly.
So you know what you can do?
If you have to show it properly, you can do something like current state, okay?
You can do something like this, okay?
So basically, you know, Redux, Redux has a different way to handle this state
over here, right?
So over here in your reducer function console.log won't work.
So you will have to do console.log of current state, okay?
Now when I am teaching you, let me also teach this, right?
Current state.
Now it will be printed properly, okay?
And this current will come from, this current will come from here, right?
This current will come, oh, sorry.
This current will come from my Redux toolkit, correct?
This current will come from my Redux toolkit.
If I go back, if I add some items to the cart, oh my God.
I can add some items to the cart, recommended, paneer, golden, babycon.
If I go back, see, right now we have two items, right?
Let me just get rid of this.
If I clear the cart, see this.
If you will do a normal console log, it will not show you.
It will show you some proxy object, right?
And you can't read it basically.
So Redux creates a proxy object, right?
In the scenes, I don't want to dive deep into now
what is proxy object and all that stuff.
Leave it for this class.
Just understand that you cannot read it,
read the state directly like this, right?
You cannot read it like this.
But if you want to, sometimes we need to use
console log for debugging, right?
So if you want to use, just use a current state.
And this current comes from your Redux toolkit, right?
Then it will give you proper items, right?
Now our items basically has two cards, right?
And then if I made this state as empty
and then console log, now my state is empty, see?
But actually my store did not change
because this is just a local copy.
This is just a local variable which has been updated.
The original state is still this.
Got it?
This is the reason.
But if I do this, but if I do a state.items.length
is equals to zero, it actually modifies this, right?
It will do a this.items.length.zero.
Got it?
Small, it is basically, you know, it's basically JavaScript.
I don't know.
This class, since 15 minutes,
I'm just explaining JavaScript.
It's neither Redux nor React, it's just JavaScript.
Oh my God.
But this is important.
I'm telling you, you will run into a lot of bugs
if you don't understand this.
If you will ever encounter a problem with your reducer,
you are doing something wrong with mutating this state, right?
So always mutate it, try to mutate it, right?
But suppose if I have to, so, but how can I,
you know, what else you can have done?
You can either do a state.length.zero
or you can do one more thing.
You can return an empty object.
Now, what a, see, see this,
I'll tell you one more cool thing, right?
So when you are doing a clear cart,
so redux says, redux toolkit basically, redux toolkit
or newer way, RTK, let's call this as RTK, right?
RTK says that, right?
You have to either mutate the state,
mutate the state or return a new state, okay?
RTK says either mutate the existing state,
existing state or return the new state.
So basically, either you can do this, right?
So I'll explain you, wait, right?
So you can do either of these things.
So if you have pizza over here,
if you will do this, you are mutating this state itself
and you are making this as zero, right?
This array, this original state will become,
this original state will become empty after this line, right?
You can either do this, right?
I am keeping this code
or you don't even need state
because you are just clearing the cart, right?
Just send an empty object.
So this is a new object.
If you return something, now this,
whatever you return from your reducer,
whatever you return from this reducer,
will replace whatever is there is original state,
will replace whatever is there is original state.
So you can either return it, right?
Or you can do something like this, got it?
So suppose if I return empty from here, right?
So it will just make, it will just clear my cart.
So you don't have to mandatory return it,
but if you'll return it,
it will just modify the original cart with that value, right?
It will pass this thing to your original cart,
to your original state, right?
It will basically now this original state, right?
Original state will be empty, right?
This new object, this new array will be empty.
Will be replaced, right?
Replaced inside original state, got it?
Hope this line makes sense, right?
I am keeping my code like this
so that when you will see this code, right?
You will be able to understand this properly, got it?
This is a small thing, but a very important thing.
If you'll clear your cart now, it will work, right?
Okay, reading length of undefined, okay?
Cart items.length, okay, okay, okay.
My bad, my bad, my bad.
So this will replace the state, right?
So basically you will have to do something like this,
items of, my bad, because see,
this will replace your original items, right?
You will have to, basically if you return over here,
you will have to return full state from now, got it?
That is why it was not able to find the items, got it?
Either you modify it like this,
so your original state basically was something like this, right?
Items, right?
And if you do state.items.length, so it will modify this,
it will modify this, or else you can return a new, right?
This will just replace, right?
Now basically it will just replace
the original state with this, got it?
This new object will be replaced.
So now let's just test this, right?
So we have added this.
Now if I go back and if I go back
and let me just add some items into the cart, right?
Let me go back to Magnafords.
I went over here, I added Paneer 65,
Golden Babycon, went to the cart, right?
We have two items here.
If I click on clear cart, see this, right?
We have got an empty array once again, right?
So basically it changes this item to empty array once again.
So this is what I wanted to show you.
This is really very important to know
that all these things Redux is taking care of
behind the scenes, got it?
It's very, very, very important my dear friends
to know all these things.
And oh my God, it's been a great episode this time.
It's a very long episode, but again, right?
I'm okay with dealing with it, right?
Few more things which I wanted to tell you
about Reduxes, right?
Few more things which I wanted to talk
about Redux Toolkit is.
Now I want to introduce you to something known as,
which is known as Redux DevTools, right?
You know, an important advantage of using Redux is that
Redux helps us in debugging a lot, right?
There is something known as Redux DevTools.
Install it, this is a Chrome extension.
It will be available for all the browsers
that you use, right?
There would be extension for it.
I have already installed it.
Once you will install it,
you will get access to this, right?
This is Redux DevTools, right?
And it will activate once you have a Redux app with you, right?
So let's go back to our app, right?
Let's go to home, right?
Let's go to home.
So see this.
So here we have our Redux.
Here we have our Redux Toolkit.
See, see this?
It gives you this nice view.
Are you able to see this?
This is amazing, right?
What, and it helps us so much in debugging
that I can't tell you, right?
I can't even think of using Redux without this DevTools.
First of all, let me just explain you
a important thing.
You know, Redux is used for very large scale applications.
When your application grows huge, right?
There are so many components.
First of all, when should we use Redux?
When your application grows huge,
there are so many components.
Managing data between components is very tough.
There is a, and then, you know, some components,
like there are so many components
who are subscribed to so many states,
so many portion of apps,
and mutating the states from somewhere.
So that kind of, suppose that there are so many components,
assume that there are thousands of components in your app,
and there are multiple components
who are mutating the same state, right?
Mutating the same portion of the store, right?
And there are so many components
that are subscribed to some portion of your store, right?
So that is where debugging is very tough, you know?
And Redux gives us very good debugging tools.
There is a Redux DevTools
that gives us very good debugging tools.
Please play with it, right?
Please play with it.
This is really good debugging tool, right?
If I refresh the page, let me just show it to you.
See this.
Initially, it shows us basically, see this.
Initially, our state is, see this.
This is cart and our items is empty, right?
This cart is empty at the initial load.
Let's go and try to add some items into the cart, right?
If I go back and I try to add some items into the cart,
just see what happens inside this, right?
Just see what happens inside this.
If I click on this ad,
it will basically show you the log of everything.
See, this was initialized.
Now, and now, are you able to see this?
I don't know, right?
I can't even zoom this.
Hope you are able to see this, right?
So basically, so these are the actions.
So this is the action, which is cart slash ad item.
Basically, it's like slice slash ad item.
So ad item action, if I click on this,
now it will show that the state has changed.
See this, the state now has one item into the cart.
If I click on add once again,
if I click on another item, if I added one more item,
see one more ad item action was called
and now my cart has changed to two items.
And if I see this action, right?
If I see this action,
I can even see the diff of this action.
See this, this was the diff in this.
So it's like a get diff, right?
So it is showing that this card,
this item was added in this diff, in this action, right?
If I do a, if I go to the cart now
and if I do a clear cart, let's see.
See this, if I do a clear cart, right?
Now the cart is empty.
Let's go back to our store.
See this, it basically shows you the log
of everything that we have done so far.
It will show you the log of everything
that we have done so far.
It becomes very, very, very helpful for debugging.
You know, when a user is,
when a user is doing so many,
so suppose if there are like tons of,
like there are dozens of slices in your application,
there are so many components mutating the state
from random places, subscribing to it.
It becomes very difficult to see, right?
What happened because of what, right?
It is very hard to debug.
But with this tool, we can do a lot of amazing things.
We can, we can see actions, right?
See, this is the action which has a type.
There is a state, there is a diff.
There's a trace, right?
It gives you a trace, right?
Where this is being called.
See this, it basically shows you the line of code
where we have dispatched the action, right?
Cancel, right?
Very, very powerful.
It gives you the test case also.
See this, it is writing the test case for yourself, right?
It even writes test case for yourself.
See this, a test case for a reducer.
I mean, you know, I don't know whether how beautiful, right?
Can I use this test case directly or not?
I know that this is not a full-fledged test case,
but still this thing is really very good.
This extension is really very good, right?
And please explore it.
There is a log monitor.
See, it is monitoring the log.
See this, log monitor.
See, initially we did add item.
Action.payload had one key.
Add item, see this, action.payload had one key, right?
Clear item, so it shows you basically everything.
Everything it shows you, right?
You can see a chart, right?
The state chart items.
You can see the items chart, right?
It is empty right now.
You can see it in a different fashion,
in a tree kind of scenario, right?
If I go back, see, you can play also.
There are two items.
You can see this.
This is one item.
It shows you, it gives you a beautiful view.
It gives you a tree kind of a view of your store.
It is really very good.
And another important, amazing thing
which I like about it is you can replay things up.
See this, initially my cart page used to look like this.
Initially my cart page used to look like this.
See this, I was not even in the cart page,
but I can simulate the behavior.
See this, then what happened?
I added one item into the cart
and the cart was looking like this.
Do you see this?
I can jump to different states.
See, if I can click on jump, I can jump.
If I click on jump here, so see this,
I am jumping on this state.
If I click on jump here,
now my cart page looks like this.
Remember, when I was adding items to the cart,
I was not even able to...
See, I was on my main page, right?
I was on my Magna Foods page.
I was trying to add items into the cart.
I was trying to add items into the cart.
I was not even on the cart page,
but I can still see that how my cart page would look like.
How my cart page would look like if I was here,
if I was at the second call.
It would look like this.
It had one item in the cart, right?
It had two item in the cart.
It had three item into the cart.
So we can have a trace of all these actions
which we have performed.
We can have a life journey of all these actions
which the user is performing.
Amazing, isn't it?
You can exactly know at what action did your code fail.
And you can change that.
You can debug it easily.
It's very powerful, my dear friends.
When you will work in a large application,
you will realize the importance of it, right?
You can even skip it, right?
Suppose if we had skip an action, right?
See this, if we have skipped this action,
and let me replay it, right?
If we have skipped this action, right?
So if I skip this action, how it will work, see this.
It will add one item to the cart.
It will not go to this cart.
It will skip this action.
It will clear the cart, right?
Go forward, it will clear the cart.
So see, we can even skip that.
Now we would say it is very helpful for debugging
because you might have, see,
suppose if this action was not performed in some way, right?
So it is helpful that it gives you to...
So basically what I am trying to do with this is,
I can simulate the behavior of the user,
which the user is doing on the app, on a Redux Store.
So basically, see, the UI is dumb, right?
So basically this UI is very dumb.
Dumb means very static.
And we have a data layer.
So Redux work on the data layer
and it basically takes care of,
it takes a snapshot of all these data layer modifications,
right?
You can just play with it,
see how it works.
It is very amazing, my dear friends.
I can't stress on it enough, right?
This is your homework.
Go ahead, you have to play with your Redux Store.
See, you should know the meaning of each
and every icon buttons you have seen over here, right?
Try to do it.
You can use Live, you can use 1x, 2x.
You can do a lot of stuff, right?
You can play this up, right?
See this?
It basically shows, see, it replays things up, right?
How the user was doing it added item,
it clear card, see this?
I can replay it in 1x, right?
See this?
I can replay it in 1x, right?
I can do a lot of things over here, right?
I can do a lot of things over here.
I'm telling you.
So please play with it, right?
Another homework, note down yourself, right?
Note it down is that
you have to go to Redux Toolkit website
and you have to read about,
you have to read about RTK query, right?
There is something known as, see,
this is the basics of Redux
which I have taught you already,
not even basics I have taught you a
kind of advanced kind of thing,
but it's not 100% of Redux
that I have covered in this episode, right?
Obviously it's not Namaste React,
Redux is very huge,
but I have tried to cover the
major things inside Redux, okay?
Now go back and read about RTK query.
There's something known as RTK query.
In the older versions of Redux,
in the older versions of Redux,
we used to use middlewares.
We used to use something known as Redux thunk, right?
There were things like that, right?
Complex things, right?
For asynchronous operations, right?
It's very confusing.
I can't explain you in a short, right?
But there used to be middlewares and thunks.
Basically, suppose if you want to make an API call
and want to store the data inside Redux Store,
so there used to be a design pattern,
a coding pattern which used middlewares and thunks, right?
So note down these keywords earlier,
we used to use middlewares and thunks.
Now, with React toolkit,
we have something known as RTK query, right?
This is RTK query.
Go ahead, read this documentation.
Try to follow this, you know,
there is a quick overview, yes.
Go to this link, RTK query quick start, right?
This Redux toolkit, RTK query quick start,
go to this page, right?
Note down this URL and read it.
Try to make an API call,
follow all the instructions whatever you are shown over here, right?
You will be able to make an API call along with it, right?
To be very honest, I personally really don't like, right?
It's a very bad thing to say, right?
But then I am after this session,
but I'm saying that I personally don't like Redux much, right?
And you know, I don't even like to teach it, right?
Because it, Redux is very complicated, right?
In itself, Redux library in itself
has become very complicated.
It is very difficult to teach also,
but I had taught you, right?
As much as I can.
And I don't even really like it, right?
This RTK query is a way of fetching data, right?
It gives you a lot of cool features,
but I really don't use it in my projects.
I really don't like it, right?
So I don't even want to teach you,
but what I want you all to take it up as a homework,
go and explore RTK query.
Follow this example, you know?
I have given you enough of information.
You, when you will read this, right?
You will understand when you are doing a,
when you are adding a reducer over here in your store,
you exactly know, right?
How do you write configure store?
So when you will read this,
you will be able to follow this properly, right?
With all this knowledge of this episode, right?
Please experiment with it.
See if you like it or not.
If you want to use it, if you are using Redux,
try to use RTK query also.
It comes out of the box.
It gives you a lot of good feature, right?
But for now, in this episode,
let's keep it this much.
And thank you so much for watching patiently.
It has become a very large episode, very long episode.
And thank you for patience if you are still watching.
And this is what I wanted to cover in this episode.
This was Namaste React.
I wanted to teach you Redux
and I wanted to teach you the new way of writing Redux,
the Redux toolkit.
And this is what I was teaching you.
Hope you would have understood it.
Please go back, revise this diagram, right?
And see you in the next episode, right?
In the next episode, we will be writing test cases.
So be prepared for writing test cases.
We will be testing our app in the next episode.
This was it in this Redux toolkit, right?
And Redux store and hope you would have enjoyed it.
Thank you so much.
If you would have liked it
and you are watching it right now
and if you have learned something from it,
please go share your experience over social media.
Please tell your friends about Namaste React.
I want, you know, I don't have a marketing team.
You are my marketing team, right?
Please spread this word.
It will help me grow as a creator.
It will help me grow as a teacher, right?
And wish you the best in your career.
And thank you so much for watching this episode.
Thank you so much, my dear friends, right?
Try to read these tutorials
and that's all in this episode.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for watching.
